
By Reed Shapiro



Last week, a consumer who was trying to decide whether or not to buy their dogs’ food from Only Natural Pet (which sells over 40 carbon-neutral products through our Carbon Neutral Checkout®) called Carbon Credit Capital (CCC)’s mainline to gather more information about the validity and thoroughness of Only Natural Pet’s carbon neutrality claims.



CCC has published a number of articles over the years detailing how consumer preference, and willingness to pay, for carbon neutrality as a specific product attribute have increased. Here, however, was the first instance where we were able to see into the minds of customers as they were making their decisions.



That a person called a company they were considering buying a product from, and that they also contacted the partner of that company to do further diligence is significant. Why? That call is significant because it shows climate-related impacts are just as concerning to today’s consumers as are the more well-known impacts like cost, bodily health, and social perception.



This represents a major tipping point in how climate action is viewed publicly. Just a few years ago, corporate carbon reporting and/or action were sticky subjects that companies felt would divide or aggravate part of their consumer base. Now it seems companies will get burned for not making bold public claims. It even seems companies may bet passed-on by consumers for not doing enough, even if they are taking some environmental action.



While companies and the business case for taking action to reduce emissions are typically the lens through which I write these articles, and while I could praise firms like Nike, Microsoft, Allbirds, Lyft, and Delta for their action, this one is more for consumers. Where it often seems as though we as individuals are small fish when compared to governments and multinational companies, it’s become clear those entities are now listening to customer feedback more than ever.



Even in struggling industries (like travel and events) companies are doubling down to make new commitments, and efforts towards reducing their negative externalities. They do this because they know the public is watching how they evolve after lockdowns to keep their stakeholders safe. Companies know that not showing up for their workforce, or their consumers when it comes to racial justice, safe work environments and safe stores, and a commitment to operate within our natural resource limits will not bode well for their futures.



We are at a time in the world where the consumer has more power than ever. The curtains are being drawn back, and people want to see real work and good answers to even the most difficult questions. The caller I spoke with last week gave direct feedback on how to make Only Natural Pet’s brand more attractive to people like him by going into deeper detail to highlight the full extent of the rigor and positive impact they’re achieving. That feedback has made its way to the product and marketing teams as a result of our discussion—and there will ultimately be a change in the way information is presented as a result!



Just one person was able to use a phone, have a conversation, and move the dial in the real world. 



We are all capable of this, and it doesn’t always have to be so involved—but know this: brands have perked up their ears, and your input counts more than ever. While companies often used to sweep feedback under the rug, it’s now a driving input that effects how companies develop new policies, products, services and general operational protocols. 



I’ve written in the past that individuals can make a difference by purchasing offsets, but this is a bigger issue. Consumers are doing increasingly rigorous research on the companies they buy things from. That research should be followed up with answers. If companies don’t present what you’re looking for—contact them! See if they can answer your burning questions. If they can&#8217;t, or won’t, that may indicate they’re not someone you want to be purchasing from. Use those companies that do satisfy your burning questions as benchmarks for what to expect from a good company moving forward. 



Do not see yourself as powerless in the face of these global problems affecting us all. Use your voice and go make the change you want to see in the world—it has become easier than you think!





By Shannon Mora



As the world continues to navigate our recovery stage for the COVID-19 crisis, it is the government’s responsibility to plan and develop programs that will restore a healthy economy without compromising a healthy environment. In a previous article, Sustainability After COVID-19, I discuss the benefits of shelter in place policies indirectly had on the environment by decreasing daily global emissions by 17%. Since the steady lift of these policies those reductions have almost entirely been reversed, a conflict I foreshadowed in this same article. Companies under the United Nations’ Science Based Targets initiative released a statement to address COVID-19 relief with a combined focus on sustainability.



The United Nation’s Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) is a collaboration between CDP, the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), World Resources Institute (WRI), and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and one of the We Mean Business Coalition commitments. With a purpose to encourage private sector participation in climate action, the SBTi offers resources, workshops, and guidance to reduce the barriers of adopting best practices. At its conception, the goal was for a science based target setting approach to be the norm for businesses and corporations to shape reduction targets by 2020. Due to the recent crisis, 176 international companies committed to the SBTi including Kellog, Unilever, and one of CCC’s own offsetting client’s Schneider Electric, supported the release of Uniting Businesses and Governments to Better Recover, a statement concluding 3 strategies to recovering from COVID-19.



The first strategy is to continue to keep science based targets as the forefront of decision making. Plans, programs, and proposals grounded in case studies will reduce uncertainty and result in the highest impact towards a 1.5°C trajectory. Secondly, any stimulus to boost the economy should be rooted in prioritizing green jobs, divesting from fossil fuels, and investing in more low-carbon solutions. This will ensure the protection of public health and livelihood as well as the protection of natural resources. Lastly, it will be necessary to scale up the movement and set more ambitious goals. The spotlight is on policy-makers to develop COVID-19 relief programs which align with each of the goals above. Through sound government leadership, companies will have the confidence and clarity to turn these inclusive programs into action. 



The reductions seen by a united effort to shelter in place and combat the spread of COVID-19 is proof that a united effort can achieve both public health and planetary health. Only through solidarity will we be able to accomplish both. Join the Science Based Targets initiative today.





By Pianpian Wang



The Black Lives Matter movement has been the primary focus for several weeks and the current discussion has been extended to environmental injustice that many people of color are suffering due to racial inequality. 



The extended discussion is unavoidable. Resources, particularly natural resources, contribute to economic development. While people of color have never truly had a say on resource ownership or distribution, they have had to endure the harmful effects of adverse environmental effects, i.e. air and water pollution and increased natural disasters as a result of climate change, posed by irresponsible environmental policies developed by those who are not people of color. To help solve this complex problem, we need to find a way to help the vulnerable gain access to social resources and opportunities for further economic development. 



Believe it or not, the successful application of carbon offsets not only reduces carbon emissions, but more importantly, shows more fruitful results in achieving Sustainable Development Goals since 2005, such as eliminating poverty, ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being for all at all ages, ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all. 



The Neglected Co-Benefits of Carbon Offset Projects



Carbon offset projects are often known for reducing carbon emissions, yet the co-benefits associated with the projects are either unknown or unadvertised. In fact, the value of carbon offset projects lies in the social and economic benefits brought by the projects. 



For example, the rural areas in Sichuan Province are among the least developed in China. Households in these rural areas traditionally use either coal or firewood as cooking fuel. Not only do these practices produce CO2 emissions from fossil fuels, but also severe indoor air pollution. Furthermore, people need to walk miles to refill coal or firewood storage, which takes lots of their time and effort. Meanwhile, these households raise pigs for domestic consumption and typically store the pig manure in traditional pits below or beside the animal confinements. These open pits may be sources of disease and parasite infections (particularly in summer months), and they multiply the risk of zoonotic diseases that can be passed from animals to humans. 



To reduce the indoor and outdoor pollution, a group of carbon offset project activities were established in the rural areas of Sichuan Province in 2008. The project aimed to maximize the usage of animal manure and turn it into a cleaner, more convenient, fully renewable and less costly cooking fuel. By installing a biogas digester (a closed structure that captures waste and the gas that waste emits) with an inlet pipe directly connected to the animal barns, the households can sweep the manure directly into the digester without any further contact. Both the odor of the degrading manure and the risk of infections are greatly reduced, as it is stored in the septic tank of the digester. To date, the project has prevented the conversion of almost 6 million metric tons of traditional fuels as carbon emissions.



Environmental Protection Closely Linked to Social Welfare Development



Climate change has posed challenges to natural resources that humans have relied on, which has already caused conflicts in different countries and regions. The shortage of natural resources would only get worse if we continue the business-as-usual. 



In this context, it is important to understand that many outstanding issues are interconnected. Social injustice is heavily linked to environmental injustice since social status determines the power of resource control. On the contrary, addressing environmental issues would prompt the progress of resolving social inequality. 



Back to the example of the carbon offset project in Sichuan, it all started with environmental pollution management, and eventually has achieved and maximized the result of 1 plus 1. According to a recent report released by Gold Standard, every dollar, Euro, pound or peso we spend offsetting creates more value for local communities and ecosystems and contributes in a measurable way to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. 



Source: Gold Standard



Apply Global Experience to the US Society



The scheme of carbon offset projects has been tested and refined over the years. Currently, the standards used for measuring and verifying carbon offset projects&#8217; social values and benefits are fairly mature, which provides a way to mobilize funding from individuals, companies and social organizations to effectively contribute to environmental protection and social welfare improvement. 



In the US, the power of the business sector and other non-governmental-organizations can explore opportunities develop carbon offset projects with focuses on the vulnerable, such as minority communities’ protection, native American’s preservation, low-income neighborhood’s energy conservation, and many other subjects that can achieve win-wins between the environment and the society. 

By Reed Shapiro, on behalf of the CCC Team



These past few weeks of civic unrest in the United States in the wake of George Floyd’s murder have brought a critical moment in history to our doorstep. 



Peaceful protests and violent riots alike have reignited a sense of urgency in addressing the fact that non-white citizens of this country are to this day treated like second-class citizens, and indeed modern-day slaves at a systematic level—in terms of finances, health, education, public safety and too many more categories.



While I was not alive to experience the Civil Rights Movement, I see many people and organizations saying that we have not seen a fervor for change, nor as deep an ideological division in society since that time or ever. Paired with the reality that we are still in the grips of a pandemic that keeps many of us are at home with not much to do, there’s no way to dodge the airing of grievances. There is no way to avoid listening because the message is either on every media outlet, or literally in the streets outside our windows. 



And the biggest issue of all: sitting on the bench or the sidelines with no horse in the race is no longer an option. From what I can surmise, the collective message to ‘the system’ (i.e. white people, businesses, institutions, anything or anyone that contributes to people of color facing disadvantages in society on a daily basis), is that if you are not actively building an inclusive, just, and empowering future for everyone, then you are reinforcing the current norm of white supremacy. 



It doesn’t seem that white supremacy has ever before been on trial quite like this.



Furthermore, simply denouncing white supremacy, and saying “we stand with the BIPOC community,” the way that most large corporates have done fairly successfully up until now is no longer enough (think how LGBTQI month was suddenly so important to every retailer last year). This is table stakes—your social license to operate. These are the basics that should have been a part of business long ago.



CCC has always been a company devoted to bringing about an inclusive future—the very commodities we sell result in the improvement of life for non-white people in poor, rural and disadvantaged and indigenous communities around the world. Our office has always been predominantly female and non-white. I have often been the only white male team member. We know diverse teams are better and we are thankful to be one. But these past few weeks have left me thinking, “so what? You’ve got your ante chips in, but what are we really doing when it comes to this task of building anti-racism into our business model in a definitive way?” As a team, we’ve been asking the same question.



We, admittedly, have not identified as a social or racial justice organization. We have been wondering whether it would be authentic for us to post anything in the wake of the calls for social media black-outs to make space for informative posts about racial issues. We’ve ultimately committed to only using our channels, this week and last, for the purposes of sharing information that will either help people donate to veritable organizations that advance racial equality, learn about how they can take positive action personally and interpersonally, and take political action to see change happen.



Still, this is a cosmetic address of a systemic problem. We need something more meaningful than words and information sharing. 



Our commitment to donate 1% of our annual revenue to non-profit organizations, and our benefit corporation certification, which ensure we deliver material positive impact in addition to our daily operations seem to be good candidates for ways to take concrete action. With all of the information we’ve circulated in our own posts alone recently, we can surely align our existing commitments with organizations focused on social justice and racial equality in an authentic way. As we grow and take on different service providers and channel partners there will be opportunities to hire and partner with black-owned and non-white firms, and plans to do so can be created and internalized now. 



I often sit at the other side of this table—convincing clients that publicly communicating intent towards a goal, without a concrete plan can be permissible if done properly. However, setting slowly expanding carbon reduction goals are benign compared to this, and as I sit writing these commitments CCC and each of us on the team intend to make, I finally feel the fear of scrutiny for being half-baked. 



Nevertheless, we’ve decided to taste our own medicine and say openly—we believe our collective potential as humans cannot be achieved unless we dismantle white supremacy, and our climate commitments (future as a species) will be undermined unless and until we do. We are not perfect here. We still need to take the time to understand how we can actually leverage our privilege for others without it most optimally. But we are taking this critical moment in history seriously as an opportunity to improve the way we do business to make legitimate contributions towards a better world for everyone, and will be taking action in short order.

By Shannon Mora



The key to keeping hope alive is to view arduous circumstances through a lens of positivity. COVID-19 has certainly caused a lot of pain, frustration, anxiety, and sadness. However, during this crisis we have also seen inspiring evidence of compassion, communities unifying to serve the vulnerable, families connecting more than ever, creativity blossoming, and much more. The source of these humanitarian acts and uplifting behaviors is a global shift in priorities. The Earth is also giving us a sign that a shift in priorities is necessary and is working! Due to the shelter in place policies put in place to reduce the spread of COVID-19, daily global emissions have decreased by 17% as compared with data from 2019. 



Eventually, the health impacts of the virus will subside and daily activities will transition to a new normal. People will be allowed to visit their neighbors, travel to their favorite places, eat out at their favorite restaurants, and resume duly missed activities. During this transition, there will be temptation to return to old habits. You may be in a rush to break free and take your car for a long drive, buy some craved luxury goods, or take a flight for that vacation you have been putting off. How can we enjoy the freedom of a post-quarantine world and continue to maintain the positive environmental effects that resulted from decreased CO2 emissions?



The answer is to continue to keep the health of our planet a priority the same way we have kept our families, our friends, and our first responders’ health a priority. Simply selecting brands that share your values for the environment, who take careful consideration in their materials, and honor their emission-reducing targets will have a large impact! Consumer support of sustainable brands pushes a public trend that influences competitors to join the climate action effort. Carbon Credit Capital works with several service providers who have performed assessments of their supply chain to identify emission-intensive hot spots. Their efforts to improve practices in these areas lower the overall emission output from producing their product. The cherry on top is that they utilize carbon offsets to cancel out the emissions they are unable to avoid. By following our Instagram page @carboncreditcapital, you can learn more about these companies and purchase their products.



Like these sustainable companies, you can make sound environmental choices and still face emissions you simply can’t avoid. You will need to drive certain places, take flights, and ship packages. The good news is, as an individual you can also utilize offsets to mitigate the emissions of your travel and day-to-day activities. Carbon Credit Capital has recently partnered with The Inner Mongolia Keyihe carbon offset project. Prior to this project&#8217;s implementation, the existing coniferous forest suffered annual logging activity, decreasing biodiversity amongst the vegetation and wildlife in the area. The Keyihe Project’s efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by collaborating with the Keyihe Forestry Bureau to cease deforestation has resulted in an occupational shift in the region from logging to jobs related to forest restoration and preservation. Since its implementation in 2013, 200 jobs have been added in this industry every year of operation. This has boosted the local economy and increased public awareness of conservation. The Inner Mongolia Keyihe project has been certified by and is publicly registered with the Verified Carbon Standard. Your support of purchasing credits developed by this project allows the project to stay in operation and continue this good work!





New York, NY  



Carbon Credit Capital (“CCC”) is pleased to expand its partnerships with the welcome of SA Expeditions (SA)—which provides tailor-made, once in a lifetime adventures throughout the Americas – into the Carbon Neutral Checkout® program as a carbon-neutral travel booking service.



SA Expeditions is run by a network of travel professionals from a diversity of backgrounds and places, and over four continents and seven countries. SA’s mission is to ensure travel to pristine environments and cultures results in stewardship of their communities and ecologies, and makes future preservation of it all a default.SA is living up to its founding creed by having a global workforce, ensuring that each trip booked supports locals’ livelihoods. Conservation and actionable awareness are also built into the bedrock of each itinerary SA books for clients. 



SA and CCC have teamed up to catalog the greenhouse gas emissions associated with each trip SA books and build the costs to offset them with verified and validated carbon credits. Now, each trip a client books with SA will be a carbon-neutral expedition. CCC helped SA verify the carbon footprint of each trip available for booking to determine a per-day, per-person carbon footprint from travel, food, accommodation and whatever else may be relevant to emissions of a given trip. 



SA will be supporting the ADPML anti-deforestation project in the Pará region of Brazil, which preserves Amazon forest at risk of deforestation by squatters, cattle ranchers, and illegal loggers, to offset each trips’ carbon footprint. The project protects approximately 150,000 hectares of virgin Amazon rainforest from deforestation. ADPML provides sustainable jobs, a trust fund for responsible economic development, and improves air quality with clean cookstoves for the local community, which reduces smoke pollutants for families employed by the project living in the project area. Moreover, the project also benefits the wellbeing of over 30 species of local wildlife. Over the course of the project lifetime, it will prevent nearly 22.2 million tons of greenhouse gas emissions released to the atmosphere.



Corey Jay, Project Manager of SA Expeditions is excited about the move. “Going carbon neutral with CCC is a key step in our company’s journey in balancing profit with purpose,&#8221; she says. &#8220;We have always used Mark Twain’s proclamation that ‘travel is fatal to prejudice, bigotry, and narrow-mindedness’ as our guiding star, and we are now delighted to guarantee that travel with SA will not be fatal to precious environments.”



“We are firm believers that travel helps expand and open one’s mind for the better,&#8221; says Reed Shapiro, CCC’s director of business development. &#8220;We’re especially delighted to be partnered with a company like SA Expeditions because of their commitment to ensuring these trips don’t simply enrich the traveler’s wellbeing, but also the locations and communities where the trips take place as well. The world is a beautiful place and it should be seen. Curbing emissions doesn’t need equate to ‘you can’t ever leave your town again.’ There are ways to travel sustainably that are popping up, and we’re proud to be a part of enabling more people to visit South America in a way that truly does benefit everyone in it.”









By Pianpian Wang



Ships are responsible for roughly 3% of global CO2 and GHG emissions (CO2-eq), emitting approximately 1 billion tonnes of CO2 and GHGs per year, according to the data from 2007 to 2012. Yet the total emissions from international shipping could go up due to the growth of the world maritime trade.



To mitigate the shipping industry’s carbon footprint, the International Maritime Organization (“IMO”), as the United Nations specialized agency with responsibility for the safety and security of shipping, first came up with Initial IMO Strategy on reduction of GHG emissions from ships in April 2018. The Initial IMO Strategy includes increasing ships’ energy efficiency, reducing the total annual GHG emissions by at least 50% by 2050 compared to 2008. As a step to further reduce GHG emissions, ships ( including cruise ships) are required by the IMO to reduce SO2 emissions by more than 80%, starting from January 1, 2020. 



Are these measures adequate? In a recent survey conducted by Ship Technology, 785 of the 1,337 respondents (58.71%), thought the shipping industry was not doing enough to curb carbon emissions. Meanwhile, only 246 (18.40%) expressed confidence in the sector’s efforts, and the remaining 306 (22.89%) said they were uncertain. Overall, the survey reflects that the shipping industry has room for emission reductions and improvement.



This article identifies four aspects that the shipping industry should look into for long term opportunities to tackle carbon emission reduction and to pave a new business-normal to achieve sustainability. 



The Agenda of Aviation Emission Reduction as a Reference



Previously, many critics had compared the aviation industry and shipping industry&#8217;s measures of carbon mitigation. The two sectors usually look to each other for reference when developing mitigation strategies, as they share similar fuel struggles and other challenges when combating emission. 



Early this year, the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) agreed on rules governing the eligibility of carbon offset programs for the initial pilot phase of the industry&#8217;s Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA), which runs from 2021 to 2023. Under the new set of rules, airlines can use carbon offsets generated from projects established after 2016, to make sure the quality of carbon offsets and project benefits get properly measured. 



In this context, it is reasonable to assume that carbon offsets would play a certain role in the shipping industry&#8217;s mitigation efforts at the international level. 



Countries’ NDCs as a Push



Technically speaking, the Paris Agreement does not mention anything related to the shipping industry directly. However, the Agreement gives countries the autonomy to develop their own ambitions or goals in the form of nationally determined contributions (“NDCs”) and approach(s) to limit a global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. In other words, countries have the power to regulate the shipping industry&#8217;s emissions as part of their NDCs and urge the sector to reduce carbon emissions. 



For instance, the European Union Commission came up with a strategy towards reducing GHG emissions from the shipping industry in 2013, and the strategy is primarily to measure, monitor and report carbon emissions from large ships using EU ports. Furthermore, the strategy also includes market-based measures to reduce shipping emissions. It is noted that carbon emissions from aviation have been included in the EU emissions trading system (EU ETS) since 2012. Another example is the Shanghai Emission Trading Scheme (“ETS”), one of China’s pilot carbon markets, expanded its coverage to include the shipping sector. 



According to the IMO plan, countries have to come up with a specific roadmap to achieve the 2050 goal no later than 2023. In this context, countries&#8217; NDCs and domestic market incentives could play a crucial role in assisting to reduce shipping emissions. 



Industry Leaders’ Voluntary Moves



Shipping giants Hapag-Lloyd and Maersk have been taking voluntary proactive measures to reduce carbon emissions, and it seems like both companies have beaten the IMO’s industry target earlier than the scheduled time frame. 



Currently, the maritime sector, including these shipping companies, have a primary focus on clean technologies to reduce Scope 1 emissions, including cleaner fuels (such as ammonia) and carbon capture for shipping. It is noted that the technology conversion is costly and requires policy and financial support from the governments. 



Additionally, the shipping industry should utilize common proactive measures including developing carbon inventory and purchasing carbon offsets for future. Carbon inventory can allow companies to understand, monitor and report their carbon footprint through the whole supply chain, including the upstream and downstream emissions, so they can develop customized emission reduction plans more effectively. Plus, Scope 3 emissions of shipping companies (such as business operations) are usually neglected, but it could be an entry point for shipping companies to start with regarding establishing internal goals.



It is worth mentioning that businesses that require shipping services started incorporating carbon offsets in recent years to engage customers, such as UPS and Esty. These customer-facing businesses, as part of the downstream clients of the shipping industry, have been deemed essential during the COVID19 pandemic through delivering items to organizations, companies and households timely. In the post-COVID19 period, these delivery-related businesses could forge a new opportunity to indirectly help the shipping sector reduce carbon emissions. 



Ports Mitigation Measures on Ships



While shipping companies have been the point of focus in showing concerns about carbon mitigation, seaports &#8211; equally important venues and players when it comes to facilitating ships &#8211; have been working towards carbon mitigation as well. 



Some seaports such as Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach have targeted the port-related sources that were identified in the emissions inventories since 2006 with establishing the Clean Air Action Plan. According to the latest report of the Plan issued in 2017, the Ports plan to reduce GHGs from port-related sources to 40% below 1990 levels by 2030 and 80% below 1990 levels by 2050.



Under the Plan, there are seven programs that focus on all the key aspects of port operations, such as ships, trucks, a Technology Advancement Program (to oversee general technology improvement), Cargo Handling Equipment, Harbor Craft, Rail (railroad transportation related to the Ports) and Baywide Standards (general standards for the Ports’ activities). Regarding ships, the Ports, with funding support from the state of California and the USEPA, provide financial incentives for ships with the newest engines and for ships participating in a technology demonstration program. 



Other than the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, leading ports in Europe also have formed partnerships with banks, oil and shipping companies to have ships and marine fuels with zero carbon emissions on the high seas by 2030.



It is reasonable to assume that more and more ports will start taking actions on shipping emissions in ports within 3-5 years, which would present opportunities for shipping companies and seaports to work together to improve vessels and fuels. 





By Reed Shapiro



Public disclosures associated with companies and/or their products’ carbon emissions have transformed. 



New consumer research from Carbon Trust shows product carbon footprint labeling and emissions reductions associated with products have now reached an Early Majority threshold in terms of adoption. This means between 16% and 50% of consumers consider product-related carbon impacts when deciding how to spend their money between brands making similar products. 



Marketing and product design teams should be taking notes.



I’ve written appeals to people as consumers, employees, and managers to consider how these labels and actions to reduce product emissions could be valuable to them if adopted since 2016.



Just a few years ago carbon mapping and offsetting were considered a niche solution, bearing only direct costs to companies, who faced a generally apathetic public. This public, they feared, might not rush to adopt a new norm, or worse, may outright reject a forced ‘progressive’ agenda. 



However, these issues are now breaking into the mainstream public discourse, and carbon emissions are now a part of consumer considerations that determine the profit and loss of product lines, entire companies, and even whole industries. 



A Carbon Trust study has revealed for the second year in a row that the relevance of carbon labeling and emissions reduction as a product attribute has broken out of the early adopter category into the early majority mainstream consideration when making purchases. That is to say, carbon labeling and offsetting is not going away—it will only continue its path to an every-day decision metric for consumers. According to Carbon Trust, almost a quarter of consumers already are in the most conservative capacity.



The study asks over 10,500 consumers in 8 countries in the EU, UK, and US a series of four questions, and found that:



42% of consumers surveyed want to know about a product’s environmental impacts before spending money on it; 67% think a recognizable carbon label, or carbon neutral label is a good idea; 23% generally think about a product’s carbon footprint when choosing between options; and 64% would feel more positive towards companies that have reduced carbon impacts of their products



The big finding here is the 23%. It means almost a quarter of consumers today are thinking about environmental performance of products and companies when deciding between buying their product, or a competitors’. In the actual question, 50% of respondents said they generally do not think about a product&#8217;s carbon footprint when purchasing. But it only takes 16% of consumers in a potential market to adopt a new idea, product, or in this case, commodity before it begins its ascent into full adoption at a societal level. The “chasm” between the first market innovators and a fully functioning global carbon market with strong foundations—generally between 2.5% and 16% market adoption—has been crossed. According to the time-tested studies of market, technology, and trend adoption, it is now simply a matter of time until we see 50% of consumers considering carbon impacts of products when choosing between brands. The path from 50% to 85% and then towards 100% will be even shorter. It’s taken from the mid-2000s to get here, I’ll bet you it won&#8217;t take until the late 2030s for the latter three-quarters of the world’s populace to make up the rest of the way.



With the advent of carbon labeling and climate action tied to product sales (among many other product attributes like organic/regenerative, fair-trade/social justice impact), the public is rapidly adding arrows to its quiver of influence over the way the world develops. I’ve written about B-Lab’s Vote Every Day campaign, and 1% for the Planet’s Be 1% Better platform. Both essentially highlight that while individuals often see the ballot box as the only way they can affect change in the world, the way we spend money every day also determines how the world works. Companies now exist in almost every industry who simply do better business—who don’t just trade their product for your money, but rather help you create a positive impact in the world or in your life by simply by transacting with them at all. 



CCC posted its best quarter-to-date in the midst of the COVID-19 outbreak, and we believe it is because our clients are primarily these sorts of companies mentioned above. Our partners shared our belief that providing carbon labeling and offsetting for products would result in a more loyal consumer base as these ideas became popularized throughout society. This is not to say that our labeling and partnership alone has reduced our clients exposure to the volatility COVID-19 has wreaked on economic markets globally, but it was and will continue to be a contributing factor to our partners&#8217; stability now and into the future.



The ‘wake up call’ ship has sailed. Early adopters like Lyft, Etsy, Delta, Gucci, Allbirds have emerged as the leaders to stick their flag in the ground, declaring carbon neutrality, or carbon neutrality targets in their respective industries. Some have hit kinks, but none big enough to stop their competitors from following suit. Companies will soon need to include at least product carbon labeling in order to remain best-in-class. Get far enough down the line, you could be looking at a loss of social license to operate for companies unable or unwilling to inform customers about their carbon performance. 



This is not to imply that the simple act of labeling products or services with carbon metrics will save a company from damnation, or that firms may face damnation without them, as much as it is to say what still seem like benign metrics today, product attributes like carbon labeling are becoming discernable consumer interests. Take heed and ride the wave as this trend hits the mainstream, or don’t and get caught in the undertow. 





By Shannon Mora



On April 22nd, 1970, twenty-million Americans stood for one united cause. These impactful individuals brought a voice to a crisis that had, until then, been largely ignored. The state of our planet was beginning to take up space in the forefront of public consciousness as the realities of unregulated big business were being exposed. While success seemed to ring through America with more cars on the road and our favorite products pumping out of factories, there had been little to no concern or realization of the impacts our habits were having on the Earth. Thus, Earth Day was implemented to establish a public stance to protect our resources and demand greater regulation from our government. April 22nd, 2020 will mark the 50th anniversary of this initiative, and while we can not attend our favorite Earth Day events due to the global pandemic of COVID-19, we can remember what this day signifies. 



The first Earth Day was an alignment of Americans despite political positions, social class, or racial identity. Among this union were individuals who had previously protested pollution from factories and toxic dumps, the extensive use of pesticides in farming, and the degradation of wildlife habitats. All shared the common value that it was time the Earth gained a voice and received the same prioritization as other national concerns. This protest resulted in the first United States government agency dedicated to conservation, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). From this “green” step forward came the passage of the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, and the Endangered Species Act, all legislation that set a nationwide precedent that the environment was a national priority. 



In 1990 the Earth Day campaign expanded to a global scale, including 141 country participants and 200 million individuals. Today, more than a billion people observe Earth Day as a pinnacle of change and growth. This annual holiday is a celebration of how far we have come and a time to share innovation, ideas and make improved commitments to get us where we need to be. This year the focus of Earth Day is on climate action. As the current United States government continues to lag on committing to serious emission reductions policies, our citizens have taken it upon themselves to rise to the challenge. Individuals and businesses have increasingly participated in voluntary initiatives to combat the effects of climate change. From CEO’s analyzing their supply chain and understanding their carbon footprint to consumers using their purchasing power to support conscious businesses. Both groups can continue to support taking easy and effective climate action through supporting emission-reducing projects. Find out more here. 



Now, more than ever, the world is called to share in common struggles and find solutions. As COVID-19 keeps us indoors and offers our planet a rest from cars and trucks on the road, let us reflect on the cleansing and second chance we are being offered. In the midst of all the mourning that is sure to take place during this time, we must remember that there will be an end to this crisis. When we emerge from our homes and rise from our struggles, will we remain unchanged? Or will we maintain the aligned values Earth Day inspires?

By Pianpian Wang



Without a doubt, a major buzzerword of 2020 is coronavirus (or COVID19). Since January, this word has captured everyone’s attention because of its clinical features and the deriving impacts on society and the economy. Countries are experiencing different levels of “lock-down”, many industries are undertaking multiple losses, and people cannot go out to work. The world is on pause. 



While the coronavirus is causing panic worldwide, there may be a bright side emerging for our sharing environment from social isolation. For example, China’s coronavirus lockdown likely saved tens of thousands of lives by slashing air pollution from factories and vehicles. The canals in Venice, Italy are clearer than they have been for a long time. Even dolphins have been spotted down in southern Italy, swimming in clearer water. 



These facts do not necessarily mean that economic development and environmental protection are in the opposite direction. On the contrary, long-term environmental protection includes sustainable resource usage, which necessitates an inherent and essential capacity for resilience—the ability to recover from disturbance, to accommodate change, and to function in a state of health. In other words, the pandemic indicates that human behaviors under the pattern of business-as-usual practices have brought nature to its limit, and the pandemic has allowed us to rethink, reset and reform. 



Before the coronavirus outbreak, many small and mid-size businesses were and continue to be on the frontline of carbon emission reduction, which is one of the outstanding topics of sustainable development for society. These small and mid-size businesses are eco-conscious and are doing their part by embedding carbon emission reduction to their business missions and models. However, small-and-mid-size companies are also the most vulnerable and are struggling for survival, and they will need the most help during and after this unusual period. Therefore, this article aims to offer some resources to these companies, while some tips could be useful to big corporations as well. 



Use Available Financial Support for Survival



Small- and mid-sized businesses who cannot continue their businesses during the pandemic are suffering cash-flow problems. It is crucial for these businesses to receive extra money to maintain basic operations and survive. Here are some available resources that qualified small- and mid-size businesses can apply to:



* Federal Small Business Administration&#8211; Economic Injury Disaster Loan Program, SBA Express Bridge Loans* A guide developed by the US Sensate Committee on Small Business &amp; Entrepreneurship summarizes all kinds of federal programs.  * New York State: The Shared Work Program  * New York City: Employee Retention Grant Program, NYC Small Business Continuity Loan Fund* For other states, Workset.com recently compiled a list of relief programs for your reference. 



Other than governmental financial relief programs at the federal and state level, some private institutes and social organizations are also offering loans to small- and mid-size companies. It is noted that business owners need to be careful and understand the legal obligations and consequences fully before applying for such loans.  



It is also worth mentioning that Google has revealed a $340-million plan to help small- and mid-sized businesses via free Google Ads credits, which will help to alleviate some of the cost of staying in touch with their customers.



Continue the Measures that Save Money and Reduce Emissions 



One misconception is that reducing carbon emissions requires funding. This statement is only partially true when you need to upgrade a cleaner facility, or are building environmentally friendly projects. There are also some initiatives that business owners can adopt easily without budget concerns. Small- and mid-size companies should use the pandemic as an opportunity to explore new ways to save money and reduce carbon emissions at the same time. It is worth mentioning that the following tips will remain valid after the hardship. 



Tip 1: Reduce unnecessary business travels       If a meeting or a gathering or event can be fulfilled online, it would be wise to enjoy the advantage of technology and reduce the emissions generated from business operations.



Tip 2: Allow employees to work from home if it is feasible (to save energy, reduce waste and slow down other consumptions)     The pandemic shows us that it is possible to work from home for some professions. Plus, a few studies show that workers who work from home are 30% more productive. Not to mention the benefits of saving rents (in some cases), energy and reduce office waste. Plus, our daily travel harms the planet in a way that you might neglect, even the public transit. 



Tip 3: Consider using/supporting local small businesses as suppliers to reduce transportation cost if it is feasible      If it works during the pandemic, why not stick to it to reduce emissions generated from long-distance transportation. 



Tip 4: Compost Office Organic Waste if possible     Designate a trash bin to collect your office food waste and find a drop-off location near you. In New York City, you can check out the GrowNYC. 



Tip 5: Consider using carbon-neutral businesses to be your business’s supplier      You could work with green companies who already achieved carbon neutrality, and it could potentially neutralize your upstream carbon emissions. For example, The Raw Office has teamed up with us to map all product emissions from raw material procurement, through manufacture, packaging, onward distribution and shipping of products to customers’ doorsteps, so their office supplies are carbon neutral. Other than The Raw Office, we have worked with clients in more than 16 industries and are happy to set up a conversation if you want to learn more.  





By Reed Shapiro



Greenhouse Gas emissions increasingly play a part in customer, investor and employee considerations when interacting with companies. Tightening environmental and social justice policy, and demand for better products and cleaner performance are having material effects on how companies operate. How can the headache of capturing and adequately communicating performance in every nook and cranny of your company be turned from a hurdle to an opportunity for greater success? 



Science-Based Targets, S.M.A.R.T. (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, Time-bound) Goals, Key Performance Indicators, Benchmarks may all sound like the consultants’ equivalent of snake language. However, when it comes to showcasing best in practice performance, having sensibly constructed, lean data infrastructures with clean arteries can help you minimize risk and highlight opportunities alike. Beyond ensuring core performance, companies need to build confidence about how they will thrive in an increasingly uncertain future. Clear frameworks to track actual performance keep companies honest about whether they’ve actually progressed, or have simply tread water. 



The chasm between the plan on paper, and clunky realities lies in collecting a myriad of data points across multiple business departments, facilities, teams, and other relevant inputs. Typically, one person or a small team, who typically run philanthropic giving and corporate citizenship performance, must now track down GHG data that is often alien to them, or to which they might not have access, and which may not even systematically exist at a company. 



These teams must now analyze a product’s environmental impact for possible improvements, or whether a product (or service) with lower negative impact and comparable or superior performance could be developed—a calling far beyond the traditional scope of their role. 



The typical result? Chaos. CSR teams and whole companies (especially the big ones) are spending up to half a year to a full year simply to translate “what’s going on,” into sometimes up to a dozen disclosures to what are often essentially the same stakeholders. This time could be used for taking action on the metrics presented, as opposed to talking about it. 



To make it across the hazy abyss that is the quantification of Scope 3 emissions throughout complex value chains, to a have data reporting frameworks that help you run your business better, here are some quick tips to set up reliable and efficient systems for Scope 3 data collection, analysis, and decision making. 



1. Define Scope



Without a clear understanding of what you’re trying to measure, one quickly becomes mired in ambiguity. It helps to start small with questions like, “what is our in-office electricity use?” From there, companies can move on to harder data to collect, such as, “what are the greenhouse gas emissions of the raw materials of this or that product?” Determine what departments, and what potential data points within those departments would be required for analysis. Sometimes you’ll only need one metric to capture what seems like a complex analysis. Sometimes you need millions, but don’t go down a rabbit hole when you need only to look under one specific rock. You’ll thank yourself later for taking the time to get it right in the beginning. 



2. Identify Opportunities for Compartmentalization



Once departments and data points are identified, determine which role within those departments knows them off the top of their head, and can get them to you in 10 minutes. It pays to discuss what you are looking for with potential collaborators to confirm that they have access to and working knowledge of the metric you need. Developing respect and regular communication with these specific points of contact will make aggregating data much simpler when the time comes. Remember, the alternative doing it alone, possibly to be seen as a prying outsider. Having allies who know exactly what they need to do to uphold their end of the alliance makes for peaceable data collection, and allows them to feel part of a whole, while giving you neatly organized data streams that can be stacked up or looked at individually.



3. Create Minimally-Invasive Metrics and Reporting Structures



Great, you’ve found the right person with the right data. However, never-ending reporting syndrome will persist if the process and timing of data collection is at odds with gatekeeper’s day-to-day workflow. People have primary responsibilities, likely none of which include your carbon inventory. If the cadence or content of reporting conflicts with their tasks, their effectiveness an employee drops, and makes you look like a drag.



Instead, create reporting structures that are as simple as performing one’s day-to-day tasks. Often, the data points necessary for analysis, like monthly electricity use, or quarterly business travel, can simply be highlighted and sent out as they otherwise would, with analysts copied. Because analysts have determined a scope and built departmental relationships, they can pull from existing reports efficiently. The particular data points you need can be pieced together on your own time, as opposed to asking someone with a full plate to lay it out for you. The key is to make the collection of specified data points as much a part of an individuals’ work flow as is punching in in the morning.  It’s OK to do a little leg-work behind the scenes (i.e. making more in depth calculations or analyses with raw data)—there’s time for that when information comes in on time and with no fuss. 



4. Formalization of Process and Integration Into Workflow



The steps described so far cover strategies for efficient data collection of individual data points. However, one of the most critical aspects of greatly reducing the time it takes to conduct and make sense of Scope 3 emissions lies in the system-level data aggregation framework you create to parse through troves of data coming from across your organization. This is especially important at the enterprise level, where firms operate internationally, across hundreds of facilities, with dozens to hundreds of product lines, each with their own inputs, outputs, and value chains.



Due care must be taken at the beginning of the process to develop foresight as to what data will come from where, how it will be analyzed, and which other data points or sets it will need to interact with to make your analysis. Simple formulas, sheets, and models that can take data reported in from around the organization, and quickly spit out insights and metrics go a long way. An example might be a pre-set formula and spreadsheet that calculates emissions from transportation, with fleet vehicles, and their corresponding emissions factors (emissions per vehicle-mile) identified. All an analyst would have to do is import the miles reported by fleet drivers (something they should be tracking themselves already), and then, in a matter of seconds, out pops total emissions by truck, and by fleet, perhaps even by driver. Larger firms can consider tools that can scrape that data from existing reports, and thereby fully automate such emissions calculations. 



By this point, any organization completing steps 1-4 should be able to collect large amounts of data (hundreds of thousands, millions of data points), and deliver key analysis to decision-makers in a matter of minutes from when data is collected—not days, weeks, or months.



5. Run the Business, Yield the Analysis



Companies taking the time up-front to develop fully integrated Scope 3 reporting throughout all departments, at all levels, in thoughtful, minimalistic, streamlined frameworks will achieve more telling insights more quickly. Whether it’s ESG analysis, or simply general reporting on a business segment, individual analysts should not be left to their own devices if a company wants prompt, reliable reporting. Analysts are only so good as the information they receive, the time it takes for them to get that data, and the definition of the analysis they are asked to make. Creating easy-to-fulfil reporting mandates for data keepers to get critical information to analysts should be a priority. Doing so doesn’t simply yield better analysis, it helps create a better understanding of why a company does X, Y, or Z for employees across the organization. More informed employees are usually more engaged employees. And the more engaged employees are, the more profitable your business.



Do it all right, and sooner than later, simply showing up, punching in, and selling product or service will drive reliable, insightful analysis, streamlined for helping improve the day-to-day operations of the company. Don’t take on data projects without taking these practices into consideration. 





New York, NY–Carbon Credit Capital (“CCC”) has partnered with&nbsp;Wolf &amp; Wren Press&nbsp;(“Wolf &amp; Wren”), the Longmont, CO-based stationery producer, to make their letterpress printing operations carbon neutral.



Founded by Lauren Stapleton and Liz Wolf, Wolf &amp; Wren, like CCC is also a 1% for the Planet business member, who combines traditional art forms with a unique handwritten style.&nbsp;



Together, CCC is helping Wolf &amp; Wren offset its carbon emissions from production. CCC analyzed Wolf &amp; Wren&#8217;s relevant electricity and fuel usage associated with bringing their greeting cards to life. Wolf &amp; Wren has used CCC&#8217;s analysis to directly purchase enough offsets from the ADPML afforestation project—which protects over 144,000 acres from being cut down in Para, Brazil, which also provides jobs and the development of a trust for sustainable development of the local communities employed—to make their production operations carbon neutral.&nbsp;



&#8220;We decided to become carbon neutral simply because Liz and I started a business we could stand by 100%, not just from the sentiments on the cards, but also doing right by the planet,&#8221; said Lauren. &#8220;Climate change is a huge problem, and we need to be accountable for our impact &#8211; not just for us but for our children too!&#8221; 



&#8220;What I have loved most about working with CCC is taking a very close look at our production and seeing exactly how much energy it takes to produce our greeting cards. We have always been conscientious about our material choices (all our cards are printed on tree-free, 100% cotton paper), and making our production carbon neutral was a natural next step as well as our membership into 1% for the Planet. Carbon neutrality makes sense from both a sustainable economic and environmental standpoint,&#8221; Liz added.



Reed Shapiro, Director of Business Development at CCC says, “We are very pleased to work with Wolf &amp; Wren in helping them achieve this benchmark. We believe that their initiative to take action will prove to be best practice throughout the stationery industry—really all industries around the world—as we move into the future.”

New York, NY&#8211;Carbon Credit Capital (&#8220;CCC&#8221;) is excited to announce a new partnership with the meat company, Seemore Meats &amp; Veggies (&#8220;Seemore&#8221;). Both CCC and Seemore are women-owned and -led businesses committed to using business as a force for progressive change.



Founded by fourth-generation butcher Cara Nicoletti and food industry veterans Erin Patinkin (Ovenly) and Ariel Hauptman, Seemore Meats &amp; Veggies makes it easier and more fun for you to eat well. To do that, the company makes colorful and delicious sausages that combine certified humanely raised meat with a hearty dose of fresh vegetables (up to 35%!). Then, they mix them together into crave-worthy flavors like Bubbe’s Chicken Soup and Loaded Baked Potato. 



As one of the only public benefits companies in the meat industry, Seemore is deeply focused on sustainability. Besides the partnership with CCC, the company uses certified humanely raised meats, compostable and/or recyclable packaging that is Forest Steward Council approved, and its packaging is printed with vegetable-based inks. 



Together, CCC is helping Seemore offset its carbon emissions from all manufacturing and shipping activities of its current product line of less-meat, not meatless sausages. The costs of these offsets are built into the price of Seemore&#8217;s product, and the purchased offsets will be used to support the carbon sequestering efforts of GEC Organics&#8211;a project in Alabama that reduces methane and carbon emissions from agricultural waste and the release of carbon from dead and dying soil. The GEC Organics project uses a proprietary composting process to bring dead soil back to life by mixing it with microbes and agricultural waste, avoiding the release of methane, and fixing carbon into the soil. The by-product of the project is a fertile organic compost teeming with life, that farmers around the country are now using to regenerate the health of their own farms and soils.



As the company grows, Seemore plans to further its partnership with CCC with the hope to one day achieve full carbon neutrality. As time goes on, Seemore will utilize the results of its work with CCC to guide further reductions from its operations and supply chain.



&#8220;Not only will our work with Carbon Credit Capital help us create a better ecosystem,&#8221; says Seemore Co-Founder Erin Patinkin, &#8220;but it also will help us assess our supply chain now and in the future, and determine where along it we can reduce our emissions simply through efficiencies and vendor/ingredient choices. We are very excited to be one of the only meat companies in the world to offset emissions.&#8221;



CCC&#8217;s President, Olivia Fussell and Director of Business Development, Reed Shapiro, mentioned that CCC was &#8220;honored both to help Seemore Meats &amp; Veggies start their journey towards carbon neutrality, and to be partnered with one of the first movers in the meat industry to bring this concept to the mainstream. We look forward to watching Seemore Meats &amp; Veggies grow and to being a part of their story from the beginning.&#8221;

By Shannon Mora



Have you ever considered ways to earn money from your sustainability practices? Perhaps you have a sizable forest land that you wish to earn extra revenues from. Given the known high carbon sequestration ability of your plant species, you may consider developing a carbon credit project. 



Carbon financing is a great way to support and reward innovators who implement carbon-reducing activities. You can have your activity certified to issue carbon credits, a tradable commodity, for your efforts to reduce or avoid the release of carbon emissions into the atmosphere. Each tonne you are able to systematically and scientifically prove to reduce or avoid, creates one credit that can then be sold to companies or individuals interested in taking climate action. However, it can be difficult to understand the process of development. This article is intended to offer a general understanding of what you should initially consider. 



Where Do You Begin?



Ultimately, your first step is to assess the feasibility of your project. You need to ask yourself, does my project activity produce true, measurable, and additional reductions? Is my project located in an appropriate location? Does my project fit best into a regulatory or a voluntary offset market? Is there a methodology in place to calculate my emission reductions? 



Carbon Credit Project Qualifications



As a project developer, you must determine the qualification requirements for your project activity. Basic requirements include scale and proof of additionality. Scale is to say that your activity is large enough to contribute a considerable difference in emission reductions and additionality means that the reductions caused by your activity are additional to what would have taken place in a “business as usual” scenario. For example, forest land undeniably sequesters carbon emissions. However, it is safe to assume that the amount of sequestered carbon would remain the same under a scenario where the trees do not experience the threat of logging. Now, if the same land was intended to be converted into a grazing pasture that required all of the trees to be cut, then the sequestered carbon would be released. In this case, the project activity would be preventing deforestation.



There are two important elements here to recognize regarding additionality. First, the example project activity is considered additional because the developer is preventing the release of emissions that otherwise would have entered the atmosphere. Secondly, the project is reliant on carbon financing (revenue returns from credit sales) to implement the project activity rather than selecting the deforestation alternative. Without these two elements, the project activity could not be considered to be additional. 



Carbon Credit Revenue Potential



There are many ways you can finance your carbon projects through government grants, NGO’s, and private foundations. You can also rely on the returns from retailing credits. The market prices for credits depends on a number of factors: the project industry, the type of market, project location, and co-benefits.



There are two types of markets: compliance and voluntary. Compliance markets are in place as a tool to service those required under law to lower their carbon footprint. The guidelines set forth in this article are geared towards projects in a voluntary market, which are to serve individuals and companies interested in doing their part to combat climate change and reduce their emissions voluntarily. 



Co-benefits refer to the additional social benefits that a project has on their surrounding communities, a large contributing factor to credit pricing. These positive externalities include providing job security that otherwise wouldn’t exist, providing energy sources to remote areas, facilitating education opportunities, ensuring clean breathing air, and so on. Companies and individuals tend to select projects that host co-benefits that align with their personal ethos or philanthropies. The more relatable and impactful your project is on socio-economic fronts, the more popular or attractive your project will be for buyers. 



Standards and Methods



You are going to need to select a standard body with which your project activity will be certified under. There are a number of different standard bodies that serve to ensure that registered projects have true, measurable, and additional emission reductions. Each standard serves specific project locations and has approved certain methodologies for calculating the reductions of various activities. Project activities fall under different industry titles including forestry, renewable energy, transportation, agriculture, waste management, and more. Once you have identified what your project activity is, where it will be located, and which market you wish to enter, you can narrow down your options for Standard selection. 



The methodologies for each Standard provide tools, equations, and guidelines for calculating emissions. Selecting the most appropriate method is the beginning of your project process and will lay out the technical requirements you will be expected to meet. If a methodology does not yet exist for your activity, it is always possible to develop your own. 



How can we help?



CCC serves as project consultants, helping you to navigate the development process and bridge communications between developers and the Standards. We typically kick-off the development process with a diligence report to cover each of these initial qualification factors. This report provides the foundation for project development prior to sinking premature costs as it outlines the expectations of the certification process. 



If you are interested in receiving a comprehensive diligence report to kick-start your development process, or wish to know more information about the steps to certification, please don’t hesitate to contact us. 

By Pianpian Wang



Picture yourself in a supermarket deciding between brands of dog food. One brand captures your attention with the claim “carbon-neutral” on the packaging. You have noticed this to be a new and popular trend for companies to include claims such as  “carbon neutral” and “net-zero emission carbon footprint” as a way to differentiate their products in the marketplace. It begs the question, what do these terms really mean?



Carbon neutrality or net-zero carbon footprint means that an organization or an individual eliminates as much greenhouse gas as it creates. Generally speaking, the claim of carbon neutrality refers to a means of taking climate action and can be used to engage with consumers regarding the sustainability efforts your company has invested as well as to increase brand value. Therefore, this article primarily focuses on the claim of carbon neutrality from a corporate perspective. 



Ok, back to the dog food product on the shelf of the supermarket. Before printing the label of “carbon neutral” on the products or services, business owners may need to understand some potential legal risks if they have not framed the claim properly.  



Currently, there is no direct legislation related to the claim of carbon neutrality. That being said, there are some existing laws and regulations that can supervise the usage of carbon neutrality claims. The US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) first issued the Green Guides in 1992 and then revised it in 1996, 1998, and 2012. Note that the Green Guides’ nature is not rules or regulations, instead, it is a description of the types of environmental claims the FTC may or may not find deceptive under Section 5 of the FTC Act, a section about prohibited “unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce”. The 2012 version includes new guidance on 1) use of product certifications and seals of approval; 2) carbon offsets, 3) free-of claims, 4) non-toxic claims, 5) made with renewable energy claims, and 6) made with renewable materials claims.



Besides, due to a lack of strict guidelines for presenting these claims, or setting a framework, companies run potential risks of violating established advertisement laws. If a company does not frame the claim of carbon neutrality accurately, the company could be accused of false advertising or providing misleading information to consumers. Furthermore, publicly listed firms could potentially induce investors to make purchase or sale decisions based on false information, thus resulting in financial losses and violation of securities laws. 



Here are some tips to help companies frame and communicate the claim with their stakeholders properly:  



Firstly, do not forget to mitigate unavoidable emissions. Many companies implement measures to replace energy sources with renewable energy and assume it is qualified as carbon neutrality. To some extent, the company could claim its energy emissions is carbon neutral. However, a company&#8217;s carbon footprint is not only generated from its energy usage. 



The Greenhouse Gas Protocol divides emission sources into three scopes. Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from owned or controlled sources (such as company vehicles, and other direct fuel purchase). Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy (such as electricity and natural gas consumption). Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and downstream emissions (such as corporate logistics and supply chains). 



Based on this classification, renewable energy adoption can only mitigate the carbon footprint of Scope 2, while Scope 1 and 3 emissions are not included. In this context, the company cannot claim it is carbon neutral since it has not taken measures to reduce carbon emissions generated from Scope 1 and 3. To avoid errors as well as to add credibility to the companies’ carbon emission report, companies should ask a third-party firm to conduct a comprehensive survey to understand their corporate carbon footprint or have the third-party verify their existing carbon calculations. 



It is worth mentioning that more and more companies started purchasing carbon offsets regularly, such as Ernst &amp; Young, Microsoft, and Google, to mitigate unavoidable emissions to reach the balance of carbon output and carbon removal. 



Second, state what scope is covered in the carbon-neutral claim. If it is not feasible to go entirely carbon neutral as a company within a short time, then the business owner can focus on a more manageable starting point. In practice, there are different scopes that a company can invest in efforts to make carbon-neutral, depending on the company’s available resources (labor and budget): a. business operations, b. logistic support, for example, Esty made their shipping carbon-neutral, c. all products and services, and, d. some products and services, such as Good Clean Love made their most popular product carbon-neutral. 



If a company only reduced the carbon footprint of a certain scope such as business operation (office electricity, natural gas, business travel, employee commutes, waste and so on), then the company can claim its business operation is carbon neutral, while it cannot extend the claim to include products or services. 



Thirdly, make sure the efforts are consistent and on-going to match the claim. Being carbon neutral is not just a one-time action. It requires companies to continuously monitor their corporate carbon footprint and to take action to remove the same amount of emissions at the same time or afterward. If the action is discontinued, the claim of carbon neutrality would no longer be true. For companies to maintain their status of carbon neutrality business owners must purchase carbon offsets annually to address their unavoidable emissions. That’s because the valid period of carbon offsets is one year. 



Lastly, companies can protect their claims by always asking for retirement receipts from their carbon offset sellers for record and audit purposes. 

As we exit 2019, and last decade becomes history, we have taken some time to reflect on our work over the past 12 months and what it means for CCC moving forward into 2020 and beyond. While there was much conflict, 2019 also indicates cause for real optimism based on the actions taken by key stakeholders around the world.



2019 was the second-hottest year on record 2019 marked a record high of global greenhouse gas emissions2019 witnessed the growing intensity of wildfires around the world2019 also marked the inclusion of youth voices on climate issues and action 2019 saw more than 60 countries pledges to reach net-zero emissions by 2050



In the midst of considerable despair and twinklings of hope about the environment, Carbon Credit Capital (“CCC”) has held true to its founding mission to make it easy and affordable for companies and people around the world to take action and reduce their emissions. In 2019, we were able to expand our impact with considerable additions to both the number of companies, products and services we help go carbon neutral, as well as the size and influence of clients we keep. This Summary highlights some of our most notable progress and accomplishments in 2019. 



Carbon Neutral Checkout®



Our Carbon Neutral Checkout® Program has grown since 2015 into a robust solution that allows organizations to reduce emissions by engaging with customers. We see more and more programs like it popping up around the world. We feel this is a testament to our long-term vision and our place as an innovator and leader in the voluntary carbon markets globally. In 2019 we added businesses of all sizes to CNC, and they have duly played their part in avoiding the worst of the climate emergency. The infographic below showcases some of the accomplishments we achieved through the Carbon Neutral Checkout® program in 2019 alone, and highlights our year-end totals in terms of products available for purchase as carbon neutral, and total carbon neutral transactions through our partners in the calendar year.







CCC Events 



In addition to offsetting products, CCC also helps services and events calculate and offset their emissions as well. Here is a list of events that CCC was invited to attend as an official carbon offset partner, as well as events we organized ourselves in 2019:



1% for the Planet Global Summit  CCC was invited to attend the Global Summit as an Offset Partner for the second year in a row to help attendees offset their carbon footprint from their travels in and out of the gathering, including transportation, as well as local accommodation and food. More than 20% of attendees voluntarily purchased carbon offsets to reduce emissions from their travels to, and from the Summit, effectively making ⅕ of the event carbon neutral. Some of the contacts CCC made at the summit have turned into long-term partners, most notably in Made Trade.



Earth Day at Union Square 2019 also marks our second year as a partner with the Earth Day Initiative. Here, CCC’s whole team set up shop in Union Square North to help vendors and attendees offset their carbon emissions caused by attending Earth Day New York 2019 at Union Square. A total of 9.41 metric tonnes (20,745.5 lbs) of carbon emissions associated with the event were offset by dozens of attendees and several vendors. 



Good Clean Love Instagram Live Talk In partnership with Good Clean Love—a Carbon Neutral Checkout® partner, whose Almost Naked Organic Personal Lubricant sold in Whole Foods around the country has been carbon neutral since 2018—we held our first live talk on Instagram promoting a healthy sex life. This talk aimed to engage the public on incorporating more sustainable lifestyles, and making conscious choices about the products we buy and use on our bodies.



Be Social Change Sustainability (Spring/Summer) Connector Be Social Change announced its partnership with CCC to offset its full programming footprint for 2019-2020. At the event, our Director of Business Development, Reed Shapiro, spoke on a panel about how carbon offsets can help businesses achieve sustainability goals and fit into the bigger picture of their sustainability strategy. 



NYC Climate Week—Marketplace of the Future As an Offset Partner, CCC helped the Marketplace of the Future&#8217;s visitors and attendees offset their carbon footprint from their travels to and from the event during NYC’s Climate Week 2019. CCC set up an interactive display where data from attendees was captured in real-time, allowing us to measure the emissions of the event accurately and in a way that participants could touch and see. We also allowed attendees to vote on which of our offset projects they wanted the monies raised to go towards. About 113 metric tonnes of carbon emissions will be offset by Marketplace of the Future’s organizers as an example of how easy it is to build the cost to offset emissions into the price of a ticketed event. The credits will go towards our ADPML afforestation project in Pará, Brazil.



COP 25—B Corp Net Zero 2030 At the 25th Conference of Parties (COP25) in Madrid, Carbon Credit Capital, together with over 500 fellow B Corporations, has publicly committed to reaching net-zero emissions by the year 2030, accelerating the reduction of our greenhouse gas emissions to reach a 1.5-degree trajectory 20 years ahead of the 2050 targets set in the Paris Agreement. 



CCC’s Own Impact



Internally, we keep challenging ourselves to build an equal and diverse working environment as a team. CCC has been honored as an Inclusive Economy Changemaker by B-Lab for its work in the 2019 Inclusive Economy Challenge. 



Externally, the CCC team shared its knowledge in the field at multiple domestic and international events. For example, our Director of Business Development Reed Shapiro spoke at COP 25 in Madrid as a guest on a panel about how Voluntary Carbon Markets will evolve post-2020 organized by Turkey (the country). It has been several years since CCC’s founder, Olivia Fussell spoke at a COP. CCC is yet again leading conversations about where the industry will go in the coming years.



To 2020



In the midst of so much seemingly wrong with the world, 2019 was also a fruitful journey. CCC has solidified itself at the foundation of the demand for carbon-neutral products and services, and we have created a meaningful impact with regards to carbon emission reduction. We look forward to a new year filled with exciting breakthroughs with you! 





By Stephanie Bramwell



The famous phrase, “we don’t inherit the Earth from our ancestors, we borrow it from our children,” encourages sustainable living for the sake of future generations. In the past decade, the children have begun revoking borrowing privileges- Generation Z is taking back the Earth.



Generation Z



Who is Generation Z? While an exact age range has not been universally agreed upon, members of Generation Z are broadly defined as being born after 1995 and before 2015. The oldest members of Generation Z are nearly 25 years old and the youngest are 5 years old. 



Generation Z and Millenials, the preceding generation, are more concerned about climate change than older generations. This is unsurprising since they will be subjected to the most extreme consequences of climate change. A study released in December 2019 from Amnesty International surveyed individuals ages 18 to 25 about their fears for the world. The most agreed upon important issue facing the world was climate change, selected by 41% of respondents. Pollution was the second most cited option, chosen by 38% of respondents, and loss of natural resources was the fourth most popular option (23%) after terrorism (31%). 



You might think the respondents who participated in the survey are far away from your life. In a considerably more limited study, this past November I surveyed approximately 100 of my peers between the ages of 18 and 22. Among the responses, 60% agreed the climate crisis is the most urgent issue of our time. On a scale of 1-5, with 5 being the most urgent crisis of our time, no one selected below a 3. Generation Z has prompted an awakening on the urgency of dealing with climate change. 



Climate Change



Climate change is an insidious problem because the relationship between its causes and consequences is difficult to track and not always intuitive to us; when I look at the sky I can’t see the greenhouse gases thickening the atmosphere. However, the consequences of this increase in greenhouse gases are tangible. They include extreme weather events, wildfires, and a shifting in the availability of resources that threatens our society and economic development. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has warned that we have ten years to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions before the planet is irreparably damaged. Within this period, Generation Z will be acutely impacted by these consequences. Those of us that have privileged lives are grappling with the knowledge that our futures will be drastically different than the lives of our parents.



Gladly, not only is the younger generation concerned about the climate crisis, but we are also taking steps to bring this issue to more people’s attention. One example of Youth environmental movements is Fridays for the Future. Fridays for the Future is now a world-wide movement with some students striking every week and other strikes, such as the Global Youth Climate Strike preceding the UN Climate Action Summit in September, attended by approximately 4 million people world-wide. The leader of the Fridays for the Future movement is activist Greta Thunberg, a 16-year old member of Generation Z from Sweden. In August 2018 she began protesting for climate action in front of the Swedish Parliament building on Fridays instead of attending school. The pressure upon Generation Z is stifling, yet visionaries such as Greta Thunberg tirelessly advocate for logical solutions in spite of opposition. In an interview with NBC, Thunberg explained, “I can’t be proud of something until [a decline in greenhouse gas emissions] has been achieved.” This wisdom is an example for all of us, not only members of Generation Z. 



Looking Forward



In order to reduce fossil fuel emissions and thus avoid the most devastating impacts of the climate crisis individual habits and corporate and government systems must change. While we are waiting for further action from governments and companies, where do we go from here? Will we have to suffer the most devastating effects of climate change is defined by the conclusion of the alphabet? 



As a proud member of Generation Z, I advocate the philosophy that it is our privilege to transform these systems to create a sustainable future. We can&#8211;



continue to learn about the planet and share our knowledge with those around us (which is an opportunity to better ourselves).reduce our individual carbon footprint with available tools and offset the emissions we cannot avoid by purchasing carbon credits.  be eco-consumers to support companies that are dedicated to limiting their environmental impact. 



In 2020, Generation Z and Millenials are expected to make-up the largest percentage of registered voters in the U.S. It is our right to elect officials that will address climate change as the crisis it is. The dedication of individuals such as Greta Thunberg and the millions of anonymous people, of all ages, who strive to live sustainably provides an opportunity for the closure of this decade to mark not only the end of an era of environmental abuse, but the beginning of humanity’s sustainable and prosperous future. 



We know inheriting the Earth is not our birthright, rather it is our joyful responsibility to prepare this world for our children. 





By Reed Shapiro



COP is Just Another Conference, and it’s Time to Take it Off the Pedestal



I’ve now been to some very large conventions, as well as more intimate, “high-level” conferences. At each, I found both great and uninspiring experiences. In best-cases, very high-power people get into the weeds with the lower-level attendees, roll their sleeves up, and leave the stump speech at home to actually use the conference time to help work towards a shared goal. In many more worst-cases, one finds cold, transactional environments, where power players are the only ones with a mic, into which they spit recycled, grey spins from last week, or last year. It really can be two completely different worlds.



I wasn’t sure what to expect when attending the 25th Conference of Parties in Madrid, Spain (COP 25). Major world leaders would be making rulings on the future fate of billions of people, while at the same time, individuals, businesses, NGOs, activists and more were waiting in the wings, playing their parts, trying to go above and beyond.&nbsp;



As we now know, the stars did not align to create the great global nexus of inspiring action and outcomes the world needed COP 25 to be. The Parties made no agreement made by the close of COP. The typical exclusionary power dynamics exhibited by the Parties and the UN itself, reared their ugly heads ensuring nothing but the same old narrative came out of the week. Good things did happen, and I will highlight them. However, as much as this post is about “my experience at COP,” it is as much a critique on the global circuit of conferences as we know it. Even at the “best COP” some people have ever attended, at this biggest, most important global stage, a lot of lip service distracted us from achieving the substantive goal we set out for in the first place—a final decision on the 6th article of the Paris Agreement.



There are many hundreds and thousands of people who have given their all to see progress on global climate legislation—and so I acknowledge my next statements’ unfairness to those people—but after 25 years of gridlock on the issue, it is clear that the world’s governments alone are incapable of transitioning the world into a habitable future. Non-State, and Sub-State actors are the world’s only hope to not only meet current national emissions reduction pledges, but to go beyond currently established goals, which we all know are inadequate as they stand today.



Why Disavow? Policy Makers May Write Legislation, but Businesses Carry it Out



I was invited to both speak individually on the state of voluntary carbon markets in the United States, as well as to attend one of the high-level negotiation sessions to represent Carbon Credit Capital as one of the 533 Certified Benefit Corporations who have committed to achieving net-zero emissions by 2030, and which were being honored by the UN. Neither session had anything to do with how final policy gets determined, however, both sessions laid the foundations of how existing desired policy outcomes (such as a re-vamp on the rules and regulations in the voluntary carbon markets that will catalyze the action and investment necessary to keep the world below 2C) will be achieved by business action.



Business Action and Input Fills the Policy Gap on the Sidelines



In the first session, I was invited by Life Enerji, a Turkish carbon offset project developer, to give a recount of how potential changes to the structure of the voluntary carbon markets would affect the way business is done in the US. The content of the presentation focused on the fact that no matter how a deal on the Paris Accords might have changed the rules of the road, one constant remained: businesses in the US are flocking to take voluntary action on reducing emissions. This trend has been steadily gaining momentum for 18-24 months. We are seeing a scenario where businesses fully recognize that their local and national regulators are not in a position to take near-term action on climate—businesses are taking these matters into their own hands. Even if there was a ruling made on how voluntary markets would transform, the willingness to both play and pay is likely not going anywhere, but rather just getting ramped up. While it is unique, the state of affairs United States clearly shows that businesses and NGOs are stepping in where the federal government will not. Even in the EU or other locations where emissions regulations are well established, yes the governments set the rules, but companies are the ones in the trenches every day, actually designing the infrastructure, the budgets, hiring the teams, implementing solutions and seeing results. Ironically, while I was technically part of Turkey’s Party, each player giving discussions at this session, each insight, or actionable roadmap came from business, not legislative or political bodies.



My Discussion of US Voluntary Carbon Market Dynamics and Future Outlook, Turkey Pavilion



Business Action and Input Fills the Policy Gap on the Main Stage



Later that day, I met up with a group of over 40 Certified B Corporations to attend one of the actual legislative sessions given by the UN. CCC was being represented as part of an announcement from the B Corp community that over 530 of us have committed to achieving net-zero emissions by 2030. CCC was one of the first 1,100 B Corps globally, and intends to help the 530+ businesses making this commitment meet their goals. Before delegates, and recognized actors like the B Corps were even admitted into the hall, there was a lengthy protest by indigenous and youth climate activists chanting to let some of their representatives attend the session. In typical fashion, they were removed by security, and the suits promptly moved in to fill the seats at the main stage. This is yet again a perfect example of why these conferences do not accomplish what they purport to be working towards. A majority of the crowd was chanting with the protestors, and there was standing room enough inside the event space to accommodate at least a handful of people who will be the subject of the pending legislation, able to give no inputs of their own.&nbsp;



Protests Outside December 11 High-Level Session



Once the 4 hour session started, there were two hour-long UN-led panels, a recognition of a number of organizations committed to carbon neutrality by 2050, the B Corp recognition video for all 500+ companies committed to carbon neutrality by 2030, a final UN-led panel, and some time for each of the Parties to make their policy contributions (the official reason for the entire conference). There was much talking on these panels, but little to say, other than that Santander Bank (one of the headline sponsors) was committing a few hundred billion dollars to climate action over the next 10 years (a sum like this is really required annually over the next 10 years to close the climate finance gaps that exist today), and that the need for government action is critical.&nbsp;



On the first panel the Executive Chairman of Santander, Ana Botin, spoke about their commitment, and a woman who didn’t seem to be a delegate, but more so an advocate. There was a lot of discussion about what the bank is doing to help, such as no longer financing new coal-fired powerplants, and a lot of quipping that it was not enough. None of it offered anything the Parties could use to come closer to a deal. The second panel was an interview with an astronaut on the ISS. Cool, but yet again, nothing other than a lighthearted plea by an astronaut to the world’s governments to do a deal. Then came the videos, then the last panel, which was similarly as fluffy as the first two. Finally, for no more than half an hour, a handful of countries, including India and France, gave statements about their sentiments on the urgency of the situation, or of the unfairness certain terms sought by Parties. Then it was over—with no votes, no real attempts, no real discussion between the parties to work out the kinks of the issues each raised (which were each in their own right reasonable issues).



The only positives I took away from this “high-level” session was that one bank has committed a nice sum of money to “green” financing, and that some 700+ businesses around the world have committed to being carbon neutral by 2050, and that 500+ of those have made a more ambitious pledge to be carbon neutral by 2030. Business, business, business. Yes there are some countries who have made similarly ambitious climate pledges—Costa Rica comes to mind—but they are the minority.&nbsp;



A Stark Truth and a Silver Lining



That anyone should expect the governments of the world to pull us through the climate crisis is, at this point, a fools hope. The number of times these bodies have gotten together with different rosters of politicians and come away with nothing to show for it (other than the foundation of the Paris Accords 5 years ago, which I will say is at least good we got that far) is too many. All the while, however, NGOs, businesses, and people have been looking at what’s required, and doing it themselves. We do still have a chance to hit these 2C and 1.5C targets, and the reason we do is because of these non-Party actors who are stepping in when governments hit this frustrating gridlock. 



B Corp Leaders Representing 533 Businesses Committed to Net Zero Emissions by 2030



The good news is that while it may not be our governmental leaders paving the way, there are leaders paving the way. They are B Corps, and other mission-driven organizations using business as a force for good, or regeneration, or justice—you name it. Look now to these organizations, to us, to others you see around you rolling up their sleeves and doing what needs to be done in earnest. Join our workforces, buy our products, partner with us, for when you cannot vote out a lame-duck politician, there are still ways to vote on climate with your dollars and actions.&nbsp; 



As the tag-line for COP 25 says, it’s “Time for Action.”&nbsp;









MADRID, 11 December 2019: As the UN Climate Change Conference, COP25, is underway in Madrid, Carbon Credit Capital together with over 500 fellow B Corporations are publicly committing today to accelerate the reduction of their greenhouse gas emissions to reach a 1.5 degree trajectory leading to net zero by the year 2030—20 years ahead of the 2050 targets set in the Paris Agreement.



These companies, including well-known brands like Patagonia, The Body Shop, Allbirds, Davines, The Guardian, Aguas Danone Spain, Intrepid Travel, Ecoalf, and many others, are part of the global community of Certified B Corporations, businesses that meet the highest verified standards of social and environmental performance, transparency, and legal accountability. There are over 3,000 B Corps in the world, hailing from more than 70 countries and 150 industries, harnessing the power of business to solve major social and environmental challenges facing the world today, including the climate crisis.



This commitment to significant carbon reduction leading to a net-zero future by 2030 is part of the most accelerated climate action effort by as large a constituency of businesses in the world. It demonstrates true leadership in a time of severe environmental and economic unrest and uncertainty. 



“We are facing a global emergency that threatens our only home and all our children. It’s time for leaders to lead. As the source and cause of the vast majority of the planet’s greenhouse gases, the business sector is uniquely culpable for the climate crisis—and therefore responsible for demonstrating leadership in eliminating emissions and drawing down carbon as rapidly as possible,&#8221; says Kim Coupounas. As B Lab Global Ambassador, co-chair of B Corp Global Climate Task Force and co-leader of B Corp Climate Collective, Kim points out &#8220;As evidenced by the NZ2030 commitments made at COP25 this week, B Corps recognize their agency as individual businesses, and as a collective force, to act. Together, these businesses can positively impact vulnerable communities both today and for generations to come, and in so doing literally change the course of history.”  



Olivia Fussell, Carbon Credit Capital&#8217;s Managing Director,  thinks highly of the B Corp movement. &#8220;Carbon Credit Capital has been active in the field of carbon emission reduction for more than a decade. We will support this movement with our expertise and knowledge,&#8221; says Olivia. 



For the list of the companies that commit to Net-Zero emission by 2030, please see here.

By Stephanie Bramwell



The holiday season is upon us! It can be easy to forget about the climate crisis during this busy time of the year or, conversely, to become bogged down in guilt and stress as the pressures of the holidays remind us of the challenges facing our world. Green guilt is a term coined to describe the guilt associated with knowingly participating in unsustainable behaviors.  As we prepare to celebrate with family and friends or to simply enjoy a few days relaxing at home, the end of the year is an opportunity to consider our current lifestyle and how we can live sustainably. Take this quiz to consider your lifestyle’s environmental impact and lessen your green guilt during this holiday season and throughout the year! 



Add your points together to calculate your green guilt score. Let’s start the quiz!



How are you traveling for the holidays? Plane- 5 Car- 3 Staying home/ using public transport- 0 How often do you eat meat? Daily- 5 Sometimes- 3 Never- 0What kinds of gifts will you be giving this year? New- 5 Upcycled- 0What type of gift-wrap do you use? Single-use- 5 Recyclable- 3 Reusable- 0Do you recycle? No- 5 Yes- 3What is your thermostat set to this winter? 70 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit- 5 A cool 60 degrees Fahrenheit- 3 My home uses latent heating- 0Do you turn off the lights when you leave the room and unplug your electronics when they are not charging? Always- 5 I turn off the lights, but my phone/laptop is always charging- 3 I don’t turn on the lights or charge my electronics until I absolutely have to- 0How much of your delectable holiday meals will you eat? A lot of the food will go in the trash- 5 Most of it will be eaten, but some food will be thrown in the trash (or maybe composted)- 3 All of it! I’m a proud member of the clean plate club!- 0What will you serve food on and with this holiday season? Disposable plates and flatware- 5 A combination of reusable and disposable dishes and flatware- 3 Reusable plates and flatware- 0How often do you replace your electronics? Every year- 5 Every three years- 3 Only when they break- 0How long will you keep the clothes and gifts you’ll receive this holiday season? Once they are no longer popular I’ll throw them away- 5 A few years, and then I’ll give them to Goodwill- 3 Forever- 0What kind of shopping bags do you use? Paper bag -5 Plastic bag -3 Other Reusable Bags- 0When washing dishes and brushing your teeth what do you do? Leave the water running- 5 Turn the water off- 0



0-21:You shouldn’t feel any green guilt! Your lifestyle is very sustainable and you work hard to minimize your environmental impact. Maybe there are one or two New Year’s resolutions you can make to reduce your environmental impact even further, but this holiday season you should focus on spreading your sustainable cheer!



22-43: Some of your green guilt is justified, but hopefully this quiz gave you some ideas about how to reduce your environmental impact this holiday season. Upcycle your holidays through the gifts, wrappings, and decorations you use and reduce stress and heart burn by opting to travel less and reduce your meat consumption. Celebrate your new sustainability successes!



44-65:As we approach the end of 2019 and prepare to enter a new decade, take some time to reflect on how you can reduce your environmental impact. It can be a challenge, but you are up to the task! Abstain from eating meat one day a week, walk to work/ school/ the store if you are able, and look at the behavior options listed in the quiz above for more ideas about how to live a sustainable lifestyle. Take this holiday season as an opportunity to adopt new traditions that will improve your personal health and the wellbeing of future generations. 



For everyone: Even the greenest lifestyle has some unavoidable carbon emissions. If you want to achieve carbon neutrality, consider purchasing carbon credits to offset these unavoidable emissions. Carbon credits are generated from projects that aim to reduce carbon emissions and contribute to the United Nation&#8217;s Sustainable Development Goals!





By Stephanie Bramwell



As an intern at Carbon Credit Capital (“CCC”), it is perhaps unsurprising that I believe purchasing carbon credits is an environmentally beneficial and morally sound decision. However, recently I was tasked with researching the criticisms of the carbon credit market. My research led me to a variety of news articles and blogs that posited convincing reasons to skip purchasing carbon credits. Thoroughly confused, I spoke with CCC’s Director of Business Development, Reed Shapiro, and Legal Advisor, Pianpian Wang, about my findings. Here are the four arguments against carbon credits that I found to be the most convincing and the CCC team’s responses to these criticisms. 



Carbon Offsets Are a License to Pollute?



Perhaps the most popular argument against the carbon credit market is that purchasing carbon credits allows those who emit greenhouse gases to claim increased levels of sustainability without changing their processes. In theory, an individual or organization could purchase enough carbon credits to offset all of their emissions without reducing their emissions onsite. They would achieve carbon neutrality by paying others to sequester emissions. This perpetuates unsustainable lifestyles and does not reduce the air and water pollution typically associated with the emission of greenhouse gases. It also raises environmental justice concerns. Why should those with the financial ability to buy carbon credits be permitted to pollute while others must restructure their businesses to reduce emissions?  



The counterpoint is that, while technically possible, it is unlikely that companies or individuals would purchase carbon credits without working to reduce their emissions. Even if a company should purchase carbon credits and avoid onsite updates, they are still positively impacting the environment by offsetting their emissions. The true strength of carbon credits is that they allow companies and individuals to offset emissions that they cannot avoid producing. For example, the online marketplace Etsy purchases carbon credits to offset the emissions produced by shipping products. Etsy ships products through a variety of companies, most of which do not use electric vehicles powered by renewable energy. Unless Etsy creates their own carbon neutral shipping system, they cannot avoid producing greenhouse gas emissions to ship their products. Purchasing carbon credits allows Etsy to offset the tons of carbon produced from shipping and thus neutralize part of their environmental impact.



Although purchasing carbon credits is environmentally beneficial, I maintain that corporations should be pressured to reduce their emissions onsite. To address the climate crisis, emissions must be reduced and it is morally questionable to outsource all of these reductions. However, Shapiro and Wang’s explanation that companies do not act in a vacuum is comforting. Pressure from governments, industry leaders, and consumers can create an environment where successful businesses operate sustainably by purchasing carbon credits and reducing their emissions. 



Carbon Offsets Allow Governments to Avoid Upgrading to Sustainable Systems?



Initially, I found this argument to be incredibly convincing. Unlike individuals and corporations, governments are in a position to make sustainable living mandatory and accessible for all citizens. If governments purchase carbon credits they are inappropriately delegating their responsibility to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 



However, as Shapiro and Wang noted, governments aren’t purchasing the bulk of carbon credits. There are some instances when governments purchase carbon credits, for example Germany has purchased carbon credits to offset the unavoidable air travel of their government employees and in 2009 the U.S. House of Representatives offset the emissions of the U.S. Capitol building using carbon credits. However, as these two examples show, the scope of the emissions offset is limited. It is more common for governments to regulate the carbon credit market than to participate as a consumer. This is due to the fact that, unlike corporations, governments do not operate as independent entities. Scrutiny from citizens and other governments greatly influences the actions taken by these bodies. The role of carbon credits and similar mechanisms has been discussed in the international community and governments have largely chosen not to rely on carbon credits as they reduce their emissions to meet the targets of the Paris Agreement. 



Shapiro, Wang, and I were in agreement that governments should not purchase carbon credits. I now agree with Shapiro and Wang that the chance of this threat is slim. While governments are commonly cited as potential consumers of carbon credits, in reality, they primarily act as regulators rather than consumers. As long as governments are transparent about their emissions reductions, pressure from citizens and the international community should limit government purchases of carbon credits.







Not All Carbon Offset Projects Offset Greenhouse Gas Emissions?



Originally I found this argument to be less convincing than those previously explored. While I recognize that some offset projects are scams and, due to improper management, some fail to produce the estimated offsets, these cases appear to be the exception and not the norm. However, I was skeptical that carbon credits validated by a recognized third-party certification program were actually offsetting as many emissions as they claimed. There is a lot of discussion about the validity of carbon credits because the math can be complex. However, the basic principles can be simplified, as Shapiro and Wang explained to me. 



To begin, a carbon credit is a type of carbon offset. A carbon credit is equivalent to one ton of carbon. A carbon offset has no determined unit. Comparing a carbon credit and a carbon offset is like comparing a gallon and a jug or, depending on the size of the offset, a gallon and a spoonful. 



My next question was, if carbon credits are all equivalent to one ton of carbon emissions, why can they be purchased at different prices? Shapiro and Wang explained that, while the environmental impact of each carbon credit is the same, some projects are more expensive because the cost of the project is higher (it requires more advanced technology, more employees, etc.), fewer carbon credits are produced, or the project provides social benefits that purchasers of carbon credits are willing to pay more to support. I associate higher cost with a higher quality product. This is only true for carbon credits in regards to the social benefits of the project, not the extent of greenhouse gas sequestration.



I am no longer skeptical of the fact that one carbon credit offsets one ton of carbon emissions, however, I remain skeptical of carbon offset programs that provide little information about the work they do. To learn how to avoid carbon offset scams, check out this blog post by Pianpian Wang. 



As an Individual, is it Better if I Reduce my Emissions Instead of Buying Carbon Credits? 



How do I know when I should purchase carbon credits? My initial reaction to this question was that an individual should do everything in their power to reduce their own emissions prior to purchasing carbon credits. We are all operating with limited resources, there are only so many hours in a day and so much money to spend on sustainable living. If I have to make a choice of how to spend my time and money, I think it is more morally sound to reduce my own emissions than to pay someone else to sequester carbon.



However, after speaking with Shapiro and Wang, I now believe that this is, as Shapiro put it, a “yes, and…” situation. I should reduce my carbon footprint and I should purchase carbon credits, because even those who live as sustainably as they can produce some emissions. While we all have limited resources, we also have the ability to divide these resources to support a multitude of causes. Purchasing carbon credits is a question of both feasibility and morality. Not everyone is in a position to purchase carbon credits. Those who are must decide what they are willing and able to offset through carbon credits and how they will personally reduce their emissions. The answer will be different for everyone, but ultimately individuals should strive to reduce their emissions through a combination of changing habits and purchasing carbon credits to offset the greenhouse gases they cannot avoid emitting.







At Least They Are Doing Something



The most common counterpoint to arguments against carbon credits, made by both CCC and a variety of articles, is that carbon credits offset at least some greenhouse gas emissions. They undeniably have a positive environmental impact. The question I have now is, is this enough? Shapiro and Wang seemed to think that it isn’t. Carbon credits are a tool used to address market inefficiencies, but the goal is for carbon neutrality to become built into the economy as quickly as possible. The era of carbon credits should be as fleeting as that of DVD rentals, quickly replaced with carbon neutral systems that are as efficient and ingrained in society as movie streaming services. 



I entered this debate with the notion that carbon credits are a nice idea, but that they aren’t a solution to climate change. After speaking with Shapiro and Wang, I have a greater respect for the quality of carbon credits on the market and I recognize them as a necessary tool to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions during the transition to a carbon-neutral global economy.





Carbon Credit Capital (&#8220;CCC&#8221;) is excited to announce a new partnership with the ethical and sustainable online retailer, Made Trade. By partnering with CCC, Made Trade now offers carbon neutral shipping to all its customers on every order—no matter where their customer lives.  



Made Trade is an online store curating only the most incredibly designed, responsibly made goods from makers and artisans around the world. Made Trade asks tough questions like, was the maker paid a living wage, what materials is a product made of, where was it made, what’s the process behind the product, and how is the production of this product impacting the planet?



Made Trade’s goal is to provide full transparency about each product they carry so that the customer can decide for themselves the kind of impact they want to make. Whether it’s supporting refugee artisans, sustainable agriculture and/or upcycling materials that would otherwise be thrown away, Made Trade makes it accessible and easy for people to shop according to their values.



Both 1% for the Planet members, Made Trade was introduced to Carbon Credit Capital at the 2019 1% for the Planet Global Summit in Portland, Oregon. Made Trade’s Founder, Cayley Pater, was interested in carbon offsetting and had wanted to offer carbon-neutral shipping to Made Trade’s customers. Carbon Credit Capital helped make the transition to carbon-neutral shipping straight forward. The carbon credits Made Trade purchases to offset the carbon dioxide emitted from the shipping of their product funds a project in the Amazon dedicated to ensuring hundreds of thousands of acres of rainforest are never logged. 



“Carbon offsetting is one of the tangible, concrete ways we can positively impact the preservation of the Amazon rainforest,” says Made Trade Founder, Cayley Pater. “This year was full of sad stories out of the Amazon, from massive wildfires to images of expanding cattle ranching that is decimating the forest. In what appears sometimes as an endless cycle of negative environmental news, the project Made Trade is choosing to fund through our carbon credits is a glimmer of hope for the Amazon.” The creation of this carbon sink is accomplished by teaching Indigenous families living in the Amazon sustainable land management techniques instead of selling their land to be logged and used for ranching.



“We’re so excited to offer carbon-neutral shipping to our customers,” Pater says. “This strongly aligns with Made Trade’s core values of sustainability and transparency. We’re also very excited to partner with Carbon Credit Capital to offset the carbon emissions of our customers for our Black Friday promotion this holiday season.”



As Made Trade grows and expands their product offering, they plan to find more ways to ensure they continue to be a leader in the sustainable movement. Made Trade’s next step is offsetting the carbon emissions of their customers in their Black Friday to Cyber Monday promotion this holiday season. Depending on how much a customer spends on Made Trade for their holiday shopping, Made Trade will offset different amounts of carbon emissions on behalf of their customers, such as a roundtrip international flight, or home energy use. Made Trade is even offering to offset an entire year of a customer’s carbon emissions when they spend more than $1,500 on Made Trade during Black Friday. 



CCC’s director of development, Reed Shapiro remarked, &#8220;it&#8217;s great to collaborate with other members of 1% for the Planet network, and we are proud to be a part of Made Trade&#8217;s efforts to lead the charge of online retailers&#8217; taking responsibility for the impact of their businesses. We hope that in the face of the mega-brands like Amazon, Made Trade&#8217;s care in curation of their products and partnership with us to eliminate their shipping emissions can be an example of where consumers increasingly concerned about the climate crisis can turn to ensure they have the smallest negative impact possible.&#8221; 



Download the Press Release

By Stephanie Bramwell



Droughts, floods, and a scarcity of resources are a few consequences of global warming. To limit the rise in global average temperature to 1.5 degrees Celcius above pre-industrial levels, thereby avoiding the worst of these consequences, greenhouse gas emissions must be halved by 2030, according to the IPCC. This is a critical moment in the history of humanity. Climate Week NYC 2019, a series of events hosted by The Climate Group from September 23 to September 29, was an opportunity for political, corporate, and community representatives to discuss the current state of this crisis. 



We at Carbon Credit Capital (“CCC”) participated in this annual convergence of environmental actors to discuss and assess the role carbon offsets play in global climate change mitigation efforts. At this defining moment in history, we were inspired by the dedication to environmental sustainability expressed by individuals and corporations alike. Through this blog we want to share with you some of the inspiration we gained at Climate Week NYC 2019, and reflect on the action that must be taken by governments, businesses, and individuals before next Climate Week.  







Government: Giving a Push



The role of governments in climate change mitigation efforts is undeniable. Policies from the international to local level can either curb greenhouse gas emissions or cause them to swell. In particular, cities are now on the front line of tackling climate change. That’s because big cities are a huge source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that contribute to climate change, and increasingly house the majority of the world’s population. This year, Climate Week was abuzz with discussions about the City of New York’s Carbon Mobilization Act and Local Law 97. 



Passed by the city of New York in May 2019, Local Law 97 caps the amount of carbon dioxide emissions a building can emit per year, based on the usage and size of the building. At Climate Week, companies and policy makers discussed the opportunities available to businesses to reduce their emissions. One method is to purchase carbon offsets. From the various events CCC attended it became clear that, under Local Law 97, 10% of a building’s reductions in greenhouse gas emissions can be met through carbon offset purchases. 



Participating in these discussions allowed CCC to educate future clients on the benefits of carbon offsets and to prepare ourselves to best meet the needs of New York City real estate asset owners; managers; and service providers, including architects and engineers.



Local Law 97 is one example of local governments working to limit global warming, but what else can be done? To halve global emissions by 50% in the next ten years will require coordination on a scale that requires government support. CCC would like to see more states follow New York’s example by setting carbon emissions reduction goals and developing plans to achieve 100% clean electricity. Internationally, both developing and developed nations are transitioning their energy consumption to renewable sources. Grenada and the UK acknowledged at an event held by Climate Analytics that a wholesale decommissioning of all coal plants in the world would likely be necessary by the early 2030’s. These may sound like ambitious targets, but those sitting in positions of power globally—the ones with the authority to see them through—are the ones driving the conversation, which is reassuring. 



Businesses: Stepping Up



A clear shift has occurred in corporations unassociated with environmental advocacy. While environmental sustainability has typically been considered a task for lower-level representatives, this year CEOs and executive managers were the primary representatives of businesses at Climate Week. Whether spurred by policies such as Local Law 97 or the growing evidence that most businesses will struggle to thrive in a changing climate, it appears climate change mitigation is now a top priority for many companies in all sectors. 



The breadth of industries that are pursuing environmental sustainability was evident at the Sustainability Connector event hosted by Be Social Change, a client of CCC. This event brought together individuals who are active across environmental industries and those who are seeking to penetrate those sectors. CCC Analyst, Shannon Mora, attended this event and found, “It was inspiring to see proof of interest and passion for sustainable innovation across industry sectors!”



Pursuing environmental sustainability is no small feat. Corporations of all sizes must analyze their systems and implement changes throughout their organization to become sustainable. Fortunately, no business operates in a bubble. Even the Business Roundtable of CEOs in early September came out with a statement heard around the world that the purpose of a corporation (long thought to exclusively be the maximization of shareholder profits) should be in service to all stakeholders. Climate Week served as an educational campaign to spread the message of eco-consumerism. We hope that Climate Week can contribute to the formation of a healthy and sustainable relationship between the business sector and consumers. Change is possible and the major actors seem primed to make it happen, but the rapid change necessary to limit global warming requires unwavering support from consumers. 



Individuals: A Driving Force



Businesses and governments are not the only actors that can tip the balance of the climate crisis.   At the Youth Climate March on Friday, September 20, just prior to Climate Week, protesters followed environmental advocate Greta Thunberg’s example and urged governments and corporations to work to create a sustainable planet. The global response to Thunberg’s weekly protests and her speech at the 2019 UN Climate Action Summit testifies to the importance of individual actions to climate change mitigation efforts.







The official closing event of Climate Week, was the Marketplace of the Future, a one-day expo of fifty businesses whose commitment to environmental sustainability and social responsibility are ingrained in their business models. Consumers were able to learn how to live more sustainably, while connecting with and supporting businesses committed to the same goal. 



We worked with the Marketplace of the Future to build the cost to offset each attendee’s emissions for the event into the price of the ticket, making the event carbon neutral before it even started. At the venue, we engaged attendees in a live data capture for carbon emissions produced by their travel to and from the event. As a result, CCC was able to get exact emissions data to calculate the event’s carbon footprint. The organizer of the event will mitigate its carbon impact by purchasing carbon credits equal to the event’s carbon footprint from a project selected through the votes of event attendees. 



Other than pressuring governments and companies to make changes, individuals should not neglect their collective power to scale the impact. Nature is changing, and our behaviors should adapt accordingly.



Moving Forward



It was clear at Climate Week NYC 2019 that the global conversation has shifted from “what is climate change?” to “what can I do?”. While this is a promising change, it is the actions taken between Climate Weeks that will determine humanity’s fate in the next twenty, fifty, and one hundred years. Not long after Climate Week, the Guardian updated their style guide to introduce terms that more accurately describe the environmental crisis facing the world. The first update was to replace “climate change”  with “climate emergency” or “climate crisis”. 



While passion for climate change mitigation was high among both individuals and corporations during Climate Week, as our Director of Business Development, Reed Shapiro noted,“[climate change mitigation] is a marathon, not a sprint.”



Governments are pushing and businesses are stepping up, but opportunities remain for individuals to dedicate themselves to sustainable living. Ultimately, corporations and governments are made up of individuals. What change is possible if each of us strives to live a sustainable life? What change is possible if, as a society, we dedicate ourselves to sustainable living? These are the questions we were inspired to ask at Climate Week NYC 2019 and that we hope to answer as we work daily to support individuals and businesses in their journey to become carbon neutral. 



Feel inspired? Want to act?  To reduce your carbon footprint, begin by estimating your emissions using the EPA’s Carbon Footprint Calculator Visit The Climate Group to learn more about Climate Week NYC 2019 and to prepare your visit to Climate Week NYC 2020.  To offset your carbon emissions, visit us at Carbon Credit Capital.

By Shannon Mora



According to the New York Times, the majority of Americans believe climate change is a serious crisis and 75% of the population agree that carbon emissions should be regulated to some extent. Technology has come a long way in decreasing carbon output levels and providing sustainable options for our everyday commodities. We now have access to hemp clothing, biodegradable food containers, solar-powered batteries, and bamboo toothbrushes. With this level of consensus, ample education, and better technology, why are sustainable products still considered to be a luxury alternative instead of the norm?



Higher Prices for Environmentally Friendly Goods



Socio-economic class plays a large role in who is able to participate in climate action as these sustainable alternatives are often pricier than standard and mass-produced products. High prices are a result of better practices. For example, proper certifications (ie. organic) are costly, fair wages for manufacturers and artisans are higher, naturally sourced materials require time and innovation, and smaller volumes of purchases cost more to ship over time. However, most people do not consider these critical factors when deciding which products are right for them and their families. After the function of the product, the price tag is generally the next critical factor for purchase decision making. Understandably, individuals first and foremost compare their needs and desires to their available budget. 



Sustainable products will never be able to compete with cheaper, synthetic, and environmentally harmful options because they are outperformed in popularity. If the popularity of these products could be amplified, the consumer interest will grow and drive down the costs of production. It’s a simple matter of supply and demand. Unfortunately, the media plays a large role in the disconnect between these two mechanisms and arguably explains this currently low demand.



Minority Groups Left Out



The media often shapes what the public deems popular or trendy. Suddenly, you may notice that your social accounts are flooded with promotions of the hottest new skincare products, trending online clothing stores, the latest diet craze, and everyone you know hops onto the bandwagon. These products usually gain their popularity through celebrity endorsements and intentional marketing. People pay attention to who is already using the product when they consider if it is a good choice for them to adopt as well. This is to say that demographic representation matters when it comes to grabbing an audience’s attention.



Melanin and Sustainable Style is “an evolutionary platform that discusses the issues and celebrates the success of communities of color in Sustainable Fashion and Beauty spaces.” In the article linked, the author highlights the necessity for the presence of people of color in the outdoor space. This includes hiking, rowing, camping, etc. It also includes the leading retailers that provide products and services for these activities. The Instagram blogger “@takingupspaceoutdoors” shares her insights into the lack of marketing towards people of color (POC), pointing out that large outdoor brand names rarely include POC in advertisements. There is a significant disconnect between minority audiences and the outdoor industry, which is preventing specific groups from relating to environmental issues and the dangers of not preserving our wildlife as well as natural resources. 



Consider if you very rarely or never saw examples of people that looked like you engaging in wildlife spaces or conservation activities. Under this case, it may never occur to you that you are in fact impacted by a degrading environment and should participate in a movement to mitigate these risks. Likewise, consciously selecting sustainable products over conventional options may never enter your list of priorities.



Top-Down, Then Back Up



Any corporation that truly aims to impact the conservation space needs to make sure they are targeting all audiences. Everyone is impacted by climate change and therefore, everyone needs access to participate in climate action. Increased opportunities for participation will inevitably encourage greater consumer engagement and in turn allow the smaller sustainable businesses to drive down costs. The loop will continue. Lower costs will allow even more groups to participate, which will drive encourage other corporations to hop on the bandwagon. Eventually, sustainable products will then be the norm. 



Sustainability shouldn’t be a privilege, and it should be a right that we all deserve access too.

By Pianpian Wang



I got married about a month ago. With close friends and family as my witnesses, my husband and I exchanged vows and rings, and made a life commitment to each other in front of the County Clerk at the courthouse. It was a small wedding ceremony, but it was truly amazing!



Out of curiosity, I wanted to know the carbon footprint of my wedding and the carbon footprint of an average American wedding. Therefore, I ran some calculations by following the US EPA guidelines. Here is a comparison and breakdown of my own wedding and a typical American wedding.



Guest Travel



Guest travel usually contributes a large source of carbon emissions. Particularly, if you have guests who need to fly in to attend your wedding, the carbon footprint would be much higher than those guests who are from the local areas. As the wedding organizer, you can help your guests reduce their travel’s carbon impact through carbon offsets.



In my case, the fact that my parents are in China and a 16-hour flight is no fun for senior people, my husband and I decided to record videos of the wedding to share with them. All of our other guests traveled to the courthouse and the restaurant by car. After calculating each guest’s travel mileage, the overall emissions of guest travel of my wedding, including the photographer and the make-up artist, was only 380.975 kg CO2e.



Wedding Venue



As mentioned above, we got married at the courthouse, so we did not have a typical wedding venue of an average American wedding. Our wedding emissions were zero as we did not use extra electricity besides the regular consumption of the governmental building.



If your wedding is located at a hotel or resort, the electricity consumption at the venue should be included in the emission inventory. Generally, the bigger the venue and the longer the party, the bigger the carbon footprint of your wedding. Hence, it is necessary to know:



* If the venue has generated renewable energy for electricity* If the venue building is LEED-certified, which generally with high energy efficiency* If the venue supports low carbon projects as one of their sustainability initiatives



Currently, it is trendy to use a family member or friend&#8217;s backyard as their wedding venue, which is also a good choice to reduce environmental impact.



In my case, the restaurant that we picked to host a luncheon after the wedding ceremony is a local restaurant that is near our house. The restaurant uses seasonal ingredients for their food. Instead of catering, our guests were encouraged to order whatever they liked on the menu. This way we reduced food waste &#8211; I will talk more about this below. In the end, the luncheon’s carbon footprint is about 39.18 kg CO2e.



Wedding Bouquet



Believe it or not, many flowers that we usually use in wedding bouquets are fragile and almost always flown to the U.S. from warmer climates such as South America and Africa. Such delivery results in a higher carbon emission than flowers from local farms. Flowers grown in those countries also have a greater environmental impact. A 2007 study by Cranfield University in England found that raising 12,000 Kenyan roses resulted in 13,200 pounds (6,000 kilograms) of CO2, which equals 675 gallons of gasoline consumed.



I did not choose a regular wedding florist to make the bouquet. I asked a local flower shop (in the East Village of NYC), to make me my bouquet. My husband always got me flowers from when we were dating and I thought the bouquet was a lovely symbol of the conclusion of dating and the beginning of a new stage of our relationship. As far as I know, the flower shop only provides seasonal flowers from local areas. With the florist’s delicate skill and arrangement, my bouquet looks extraordinary. Therefore, our carbon footprint is much smaller than a typical wedding bouquet.



Wedding Clothes



To measure a wedding dress(suit)’s carbon footprint, we need to know the fabric of the dress, the weight of the dress, what kind of transportation was used to deliver the dress from the manufacturer to you. Some tips to reduce the wedding dress(suit)’s carbon impact is to reuse a family member’s dress or to buy a vintage dress.



My strategy was to buy a new white dress that could be used on multiple occasions. Therefore, the dress would not merely hang in at the corner of my closet.



Wedding Waste



Another big category that increases a wedding’s carbon emissions is waste. Waste includes but is not limited to paper products (such as invitation cards, venue decorations, and gift wrapping paper) and food waste. An average wedding is usually a six-hour event, which roughly produces about 400-600 lbs of waste.



There are many ways to reduce waste. In my case, we simply used text messages and emails to invite our guests instead of sending out paper invitation cards. We did not ask for wedding gifts, so no gift wrapping paper was consumed. The only paper products we bought were to decorate our house, which is about 5.36 kg CO2e.







People want to be special and unique at such a once in a life-time occasion through a beautiful and wonderful wedding, and I am no exception. According to &#8220;The Green Bride Guide,&#8221; by Kate Harrison, an average American wedding produces 63 metric tons of carbon dioxide. By comparison, our wedding only generated approximately 0.6 tons CO2, which is a huge saving in carbon emissions. In the end, my husband and I decided to purchase 2 carbon credits, which equals 2 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent, to make our wedding completely carbon neutral. The purchase will go support a carbon credit project that meets with 14 sustainable development goals out of 17. All of our guests thought this was very meaningful.



If you would like to make your wedding carbon-neutral, talk to us today!

By Reed Shapiro



I write this article with a few thoughts in mind: 



* It seems we’ve got about a decade to stave off irreversible radical change to our climate by the time I die (provided I live to retirement);  * Report after report shows we’re not cutting that gap fast enough;  * The way corporate money gets spent at large is often guesswork and at times farcical; * These expenditures leave significant amounts of both economic and material waste; *  That waste does nothing but either go to waste, indulgence, or downright loss on the balance sheet;  * Couldn’t some of that fat get trimmed and put to better use?



Real Action Falls into the Budget Abyss



“Our company just isn’t going to spend money on that,” 



Is something I’ve heard more than a few times when trying to incite investment into emissions reduction projects. At face value, it’s an understandable quip with carbon offsets. Why would a company pay someone else to reduce emissions externally, when doing so internally can help reduce costs and increase profitability? 



Fair enough—if it actually happens.



However, when reports, like this one come out, detailing that no company making 2020 zero-deforestation commitments between the mid 2000’s to 2010’s is anywhere close to hitting the mark, one begins to wonder if this is really a legitimate qualm with offsetting, or a simple distraction or cop-out. If you can put your hands and hard work (as opposed to just your money) where your mouth is and actually move the dial in a meaningful way at home, more power to you. But as deforestation accelerates around the world (as shown in the trendline below), one is left wondering did that money really went, and what good was really done.



The idea that it isn’t economically feasible to pursue more than one initiative to reduce emissions at a time is a false choice. Offsets often lose out in the battle for priority investments (renewable energy, planting trees, energy efficiency, etc.) at companies. Yet after working with partners and clients through this issue over the years, this mislead, or simply underinformed or uninspired point of view has, and can continue to be overcome.



The well-known truth is that within major corporate budgets, there lies a lot of fat and ill-incentive. Perform well one year, budget for overperformance again the next year, get fired for budgeting too much against actual costs. A  case in this article illustrates well how simple assumptions can leave companies undersupplied when a rush of business comes in, or with total excess of inventory, personnel, or expense in general. Companies cannot stomach not having enough (of whatever it is they sell), so excess is the default, often leading to no further benefit. 



So, a lingering majority of businesses are not spending money on offsets. At the same time, a considerable amount of cash excesses is lost to dynamics driving artificial inflation of budgeted fixed costs, and wasteful discretionary spending. All the while, firms skipping out on pledged commitments. 



Stopping the Freefall Towards More Waste



The good news is that these companies employ humans, and there is a growing number of humans who are concerned about our future with regard to staving off the worst of a changing climate. Not only are many people concerned with what’s to come, a growing number are taking matters into their own hands. Over the past few years both at Carbon Credit Capital and throughout the Bard MBA in Sustainability, I’ve gotten a chance to meet with and consult for major global brands ranging from apparel, to food and beverage, to financial services. One theme has been clear: employees are looking for ways to reduce their collective impacts at work, beyond traditional volunteerism. Some of these acquaintances have, upon learning about carbon offsets, indeed purchased some for themselves for personal trips, or for their annual commutes. 



These have been small drops in the bucket—just about a millionth of a percent of total global emissions. However, they have highlighted a real reality: people are taking part of either their hard-earned salaries or diverting their discretionary budgets towards reducing emissions on their own time and dime.



What Does Vigilante Offsetting Really Do if it’s so Minuscule? Add it Up



How much impact could something like this possibly have at the end of the day? Two governing bodies who have set some of the highest qualification standards for generating carbon credits have done research to show the economic value provided to local project stakeholders, and in what ways the purchase positively affects their lives.



For anywhere from around $5 to $15 invested in one credit from a well-selected project can deliver up to $465 of socio-economic benefit for the towns, families, cities, regions in which the project is undertaken—a multiple of 30-90X. Get just 10,000 people working with any sort of budgetary discretion in companies around the world to skip on business class, or pick the strip over the filet—literally curb expenses by a taxi cab fare— and purchase a credit in this price range , you generate anywhere from $200,000, to $4.65 million dollars. Those dollars go, as detailed below, to better educations, job opportunities, livelihoods, and overall economic and social development in the areas of the world that hang in the balance of climate disruption, and from which the global financial system extracts significant portions of its value.



 Source: Gold Standard Foundation Website 



So, whether you’ve never heard of carbon credits, or whether you’re an IT manager or a mechanical engineer—anyone who would never touch offsets because they’re not a sustainability procurement professional at a major corporation—this one’s for you. If you are a member of the 72% of Americans concerned about what’s to come in the next decade and beyond, and you occupy a position of relative power over expenses, and your workplace is not adequately addressing your concerns, you are not hostage. 



Use your power to drive these positive outcomes where it doesn’t jeopardize the success of your business units. If enough employees at various companies with high staff counts take this fairly passive action, potentially significant chunks of that firms total emissions can get mitigated on an annual basis. The “we don’t have the money,” or “our focus has to be elsewhere” arguments get put to rest. The dial actually gets moved, albeit slowly, but steadily. And the glutenous fat trimmed from corporate expenditures can germinate, not cardiovascular disease, but legitimate, verifiable, repeatable positive impact on the world around us that needs it so.





By Shannon Mora



Greenwashing is a term that refers to a company’s attempt to market a false impression that they or their products are more environmentally friendly than they actually are. This is a ploy to capture conscious consumers within the growing sustainability market. As eco-friendly products gain more popularity, companies are seeking a means to get ahead of the competition. Greenwashers will portray the perception that their products are either more natural, organic, recyclable, or less water-intensive than alternatives. Tactics include posting advertisements that only tell a partial truth, leaving open-ended assumptions for consumers to make. Purposefully keeping descriptions vague allows companies to make any number of claims, so long as there is some truth to them. 



Examples of Greenwashing



The best strategy for Greenwashers is to provide limited information and allow consumers to draw their own conclusions. For example, if a supplier launches a campaign with the word “recyclable” on their product, a consumer’s eco-friendly senses may start to tingle and pique their interest in purchasing this product over alternatives. However, the suppliers did not specify which portion of the production is being referred to as recyclable. It may be the case that only a small portion of materials are recyclable or perhaps only the packaging, yet the consumer walks away with a warm glow feeling of making a sustainable purchase and will likely return to this brand for future purchases. This is greenwashing. 



Another common example is making the claim that significant improvements have been made, when in reality the success is being embellished or overstated. A company can claim that they have improved production processes by including 50% more recycled material than their previous year. When you take a deeper look you may find that their recycled materials only jumped from 2% to 3%. Their claim is partially true, yet there is an intention to grossly exaggerate the true outcomes of their reduction efforts. 



Effects on the Market



As the market is what places a tangible value on environmental benefits, the impact of greenwashing is quite severe for both buyers and sellers. 



As a consumer, you may have seen similar claims on your favorite products and are now beginning to question their ethics. You are not alone. Many consumers become discouraged when attempting to make conscious decisions once they discover the realities of greenwashing. This tends to breed skeptics who believe all sustainability initiatives are greenwashing tactics and either no longer trust brand claims at all or simply lose the drive to seek the best alternatives. We see the market suffer an “it’s all the same” mentality from buyers, thus, diminishing the consumer’s purchasing power. 



When consumers feel pessimistic about supporting green initiatives, the companies dedicated to truly making a change in the industry also suffer. Their efforts are judged prematurely without further investigation and consumers move on to the cheapest option rather than the most impactful one. It becomes disheartening to put forth additionally funding towards best practices, time to seek out like-minded partners and manufacturers, and to ultimately go against the grain when some businesses are met with skepticism.  



However, the consumer’s purchasing power can be reclaimed and the influence of eco-consciousness restored! We simply need to identify the real change-makers and place our dollars towards the products that are truly making a difference in their respective industry, towards the companies that set ambitious goals and actively seek innovative methods to reach them.



How To Tell The Difference



The best way to tell the difference between genuine changemakers and the bare minimum doers, is through doing research. This can be as simple as identifying a certification label on the product. Certified labels are distributed from vetted organizations such as USDA Organic, FSC (Forestry Stewardship Council), or Green America amongst many others, which require that their partners undergo a rigorous certification process to verify the claims they are making so that consumers can be certain about their purchase and what they are supporting. 







Another good sign that a company is legitimate in its claims is the quality of their explanation. Truly green companies are very proud of their success stories and share them in detail. Check for a brand’s “Impact Assessment Report” on their website. These reports are typically conducted on an annual basis and will compare last years challenges to this year’s successes. The contents of the report will depend on the company’s goals and strategies, however, each should contain clear metrics and calculations for their results. 



One last key hint is that legitimate companies will also typically admit that there are still improvements to be made and will pledge to seek out effective and creative methods. 



Conclusion



When information is lacking it leads to skewed assumptions and conclusions. Consumers must counter this by seeking out more information and drawing informed conclusions. Likewise, companies with good intentions towards sustainability must put forth complete materials for customer review. Ultimately, transparency is the key to overcoming greenwashing. 

New York City-based organization, Be Social Change, a social enterprise producing weekly social impact offerings, has recently partnered with Carbon Credit Capital (“CCC”) to offset its full programming footprint for 2019-2020 via our Carbon Neutral Checkout® Program.



Be Social Change is a membership association for people building lives and careers of social impact. They host weekly workshops and events dedicated to advancing social impact conversations and building a purpose-driven community in New York City. Through their events, the Be Social Change community also learns about the latest opportunities to lead sustainable lifestyles. 



“After attending my first Be Social Change event, I knew this organization was unique. Their mission was clear. Their team doesn’t just want to encourage positive change, they want to be the change”, said CCC Analyst, Shannon Mora.



Through the Carbon Neutral Checkout® Program, Be Social Change was able to determine their carbon footprint based on the emissions associated with hosting each event such as attendee travel, sponsored sustainable treats, and more. When asked about their reason for going carbon neutral, Be Social Change’s Director of Strategic Growth, Jenn Lishansky said, 



“As a resource for sustainability, we seek to follow best practices. That&#8217;s why our events are minimal waste and are now carbon neutral. We also believe in supporting better businesses, like B Corps, so partnering with Carbon Credit Capital has been ideal. We are thrilled that all of our 45+ annual events will be carbon neutral!”



In the spirit of being a member-driven organization, Be Social Change ran a poll to collect votes from their membership following to determine which GHG offsetting project they would contribute to. Their members have chosen the GEC Organics Waste Composting Project, which reduces carbon emissions by converting chicken manure, food waste and green waste into organic soil that can reduce fertilizer in agriculture applications. GEC is one of only three US-based carbon offset projects to achieve Gold Standard project verification, one of the highest such standards in the world. The standard ensures that carbon credits are real, verifiable and capable of making measurable contributions to sustainable development worldwide. Now, every event hosted by Be Social Change will not only provide impactful resources and knowledge to the do-ers of NYC, but it will also drive the reduction of pollution, and the replenishment of our soil across the country.







Photo Credit: Be Social Change

By Pianpian Wang



Scams have become more and more prevalent across a number of industries, attacking under educated consumers who are willing to invest in seemingly lucrative solutions to the problems they care about most. In recent years, scammers have begun to target carbon credits, a component of national and international strategies to mitigate the increase of greenhouse gases (GHGs) concentrations. In this article, I will share some common scams with real stories, and will also give some tips to help you identify these traps. 



Examples on Common Carbon Credit Scams



The examples below are selected from our inquiry box. 



Example 1: In February 2012, Michelle purchased 2,000 carbon credits from a company. Unfortunately, the company is no longer in business. In 2019, she wants to see if her credits are &#8216;bogus&#8217;. The only information about this transaction is a certificate she received from the company, which simply lists the number of credits she purchased and shows that the project falls under the landfill gas category. The certificate, however, did not contain the full name of the project nor the registered project number This made it impossible to verify that the landfill gas project actually ever existed, not to mention if the project has the qualification to issue carbon credits or that these credits are properly verified. 



This case study shows a typical false selling of a project that may not even exist. Michelle is not alone. Victim buyers believe that they could earn money by purchasing carbon credits as an investment.



Example 2: Peter owns a piece of land in Ohio that is about 18,000 acres. The land is filled with trees and Peter decided to maintain the current status without cutting down trees. He received an email from a company that claims that they can help him develop a carbon credit project on his land. They informed him that through the establishment of such a project, Peter had the potential to earn 100 million USD every year. Luckily, he contacted us before working with the company.



This is a typical example of over-calculation of the number of carbon credits that are capable of being generated by a given project. Based on existing project data, 1 acre of land (with trees) can only absorb and reduce 1 to 2.5 metric tonne of carbon emissions. 1 metric tonne of carbon emission reduction is equivalent to 1 carbon credit. The variation of emission absorption depends heavily on the species of tree planted. In other words, Peter’s land has the potential to generate at most between 18,000 and 45,000 carbon credits per year. Currently, the voluntary carbon market’s highest unit price per carbon credit is about $20, while the average is $12 per credit. Therefore, Peter’s estimated annual gross revenue is $900,000, not quite the $100 million he was promised.



Other Common Scams Types and Features



The case studies listed above are the most common scams that one may encounter via cold calls, emails and letters in an effort to sell fake credits or collect investments for pursuing project development. In addition to the examples above, there are projects that do in fact exist, yet do not perform proper retirement and certification procedures. Here are a few scams that you should be aware of:



Recycling or double selling carbon credits: it means the seller takes advantage of the unretired credits by selling allowances twice to unsuspecting clients. 



Incomplete or wrong files to show a carbon credit project is registered and verified: it means the project does not have the required documents to show the legitimacy of the project.



Tips for Buying Carbon Credits



While this industry suffers from those intending to take advantage of an unfamiliar system, do not be discouraged from participating in legitimate markets. Carbon credits are an effective and innovative tool to fight against climate change impact. Properly certified credits provide an option to people and business who are concerned about this subject to take action to reduce their carbon footprint and restore the balance of nature. 



Carbon credits have a set of clear metrics to measure the outcome of carbon emission reduction as well as other social benefits, such as community development, women education and job opportunity, as mentioned in my colleague Shannon Mora’s article. However, scammers have abused this effective tool, and thus leave the impression to the public that carbon credits are not trustworthy. Here is how to identify verified credits:



1. Take extra caution about forestry projects. Avoided deforestation is attracting substantial development financial aid, as well as increasing interest from the private sector. Therefore, forestry projects are one of the most popular project types used by scammers to implement their fraud. If a red flag pops up, you can also check if Redd Monitor already listed the scam. 2. Check if the carbon credit project is registered in the project databases run by the third party, such as Markit, VCS and Clean Development Mechanism Registry. If the project is not listed in the databases, forget about it. 3. Check if the company is properly established. You can run such research through state business registration online portal. 4. Use the Entrex Carbon Market platform to purchase carbon credit security offerings. The platform is under the Security Exchange Commission (SEC) and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)’s supervision, which provides a secure and transparent way to trade carbon credits. You can even check if the company has a right to represent a carbon credit project. Carbon Credit Capital recently has joined the Platform to trade carbon credits to assure authentic and verified carbon credits to investors. 5. Talk to us if you are not so sure about the offer you are given. 

By Reed Shapiro



Large company after large company, city after city, country after country—are making declarations, setting goals, and allocating investments to go “carbon neutral.” 



The term, and more importantly the status itself, seem to be a new sort of climate boogeyman. While there seems to be a shared global vision around achieving carbon neutrality, the simple concept of balance: reduce emissions by as much as one creates them opens up a can of worms that most “sustainability” teams have difficulty bringing to their executive leaders who would rather not have to deal. 



Why is that?



In most cases today’s most successful and largest companies (read: biggest emitters) were not built from the ground up to be environmentally balanced. For them, to embark on this journey means to reorganize, and in some cases fully disrupt the foundations of their business. Not an easy sell, nor an easy task. Pitched through this lens, it becomes easy for the road to carbon neutrality to be a sequestered side-project for the philanthropy team, not something that is deeply integrated into the fabric of the organization, its operations, facilities, and personnel. The less any of those stakeholders understand the concept, and the less willing they will be to take it upon themselves to make the legitimate contributions that will actually make it feasible to reach carbon neutrality in a timely manner. “It costs too much.” It’s not material to our business.” “We’re not the worst contributor, focus on them first.” Yada, yada.



The unfortunate reality, however, for all who recognize the Scientific Method (you know, the same one that brought forward biology and chemistry, and the basic constructs of reality), is that any shot we have at staving off the worst of the looming climate volatility, those same leaders need to open those cans of worms—and eat them for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.



The Means



On the road to carbon neutrality, there are a number of routes any entity can take, and a number of modes through which the dial can be moved. 



The routes can be thought of as ways to grow, or de-grow, to orient the development of a company or city or country. Vertical and horizontal integration are both ways to have greater control over the way products are sourced, produced, packaged, and shipped. The more stops along the chain in your control, the more say over which energy, what inputs, and which distribution methods go into your products or services. It also allows data for analysis and decision-making flow more easily through an organization. The closer sustainability data can get to the core operations and market considerations of a business, the more likely it is that principles of sustainable management make their way into the executive suite, board room and appendages of an organization. For companies who would be hard pressed to command all means of their production and value chain, like Patagonia, models of circularity and zero-growth are beginning to rise to the top of the list. The company envisions a point in time where new production is capped, and their value comes primarily from servicing the goods they’ve produced and sold, or leasing them and refurbishing over time. 



Regardless of which route one takes, there is still then a question of whether to design operations to be lean, with little emissions output, or at scale to ensure the most product hitting the market has the fewest emissions per unit.



In terms of the modes of achieving carbon neutrality, these are more wide-ranging, and will likely be sector specific. However, I’ve laid a number of the core pillars out here, and discuss them in sequence of feasibility and affordability. The idea is that while ultimately these all need to work in concert together to authentically hit carbon neutrality, they can be taken on in compartmentalized chunks to make the path up the curve easier to digest.



Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy



Yes, of course, all energy efficiency projects like lighting retrofits, or boiler replacements, etc. all cost money. However, the payback period for these investments are often less than a year, and ultimately firms (or municipalities) are finding themselves saving significant portions of money on an annual basis shortly thereafter. Historically, renewables have been less available and more expensive than traditional energy. This is changing rapidly. Wind is bidding right around $0.02 per kWh, whereas natural gas is upwards of $0.04. These are the low-hanging fruit. Invest in efficiency and renewables, achieve a cost savings off the bat, and use those savings as a pool to fund the next pillars.



Now with a track record of savings that will make any finance department happy, organizations can start digging into the projects that cost more, but that drive innovation, or create value for customers, which will ultimately help chip away at growth and success.



Materials Management and Life Cycle Impacts



Go ahead, procure the organic cotton, choose the supplier in the US who is a little more expensive (but who if you do the right analyses might be the more economic choice anyway because of the way international shipping fees stack up). The consumers of today’s world are increasingly concerned with what they’re putting on and into their bodies, as well as what the companies they buy from, or the cities they live in are doing as members of society. The willingness to pay is way up—Neilsen reports that 48% of US consumers would “definitely or probably change their consumption habits to reduce their impact on the environment.” If you make it better they will pay more. 



Additionally, commodities like carbon offsets, renewable energy credits, or “plastic credits” (plastic neutral has been a hot topic over the past few years) are all means of getting to carbon neutrality (or energy neutrality) immediately. They have been poo-pooed by many as a band-aid, or a last ditch effort once all other stones have been turned. However, a models like CCC’s Carbon Neutral Checkout® allow companies, buildings, etc. to build the cost of carbon credits into the cost of goods that consumers pay. We’ve established people are willing to pay for better products and services. We are now at a point where these externalities don’t need to be internalized on company’s direct balance sheet; they can be passed through to the same consumer whose consumption is driving demand, and therefore emissions in the first place.



One Firm’s Hindsight is Another’s Foresight



By the time any company has either made themselves leaner, distributed their operations to be outside of their organization, switched to renewable energy, and offset everything else—at least as of now—it will have been a long journey. That need not be the case. Following this rubric above will allow those just awaking to the prospect of making change to glide along the road to carbon neutrality.



However, there’s something more important here. Time and time again, firms have embarked with uncertainty, but have slowly tasted the sweetness of being leaner and greener and more attractive because of it. Finally at the end of the day we see these butterflies emerge from their cocoons with these principles of sustainable management deeply integrated throughout their executive core, various departments, suppliers, and channel partners. Environmental balance is only the definition of carbon neutrality—the benefits that come with it are vast.



Don’t be grossed out by the worms, embrace the metamorphosis, and get up the sustainability journey curve to reap the better reputation, leaner costs, lower volatility, etc. that come with carbon neutrality. You’ll wonder why you missed the boat in the first place. 





By Shannon Mora



“I want to be apart of the solution, but I am afraid of supporting illegitimate initiatives.”



If this dilemma sounds a lot like your own thought bubble, you are not alone! Buzzer words like sustainability, eco-friendly, and carbon neutral are fluttering around marketing campaigns for a variety of brands in an attempt to increase consumer rapport. Between planting a tree with every purchase or paying for an item that offsets its emission output, how does one decide which to contribute to? The answer is, it depends on your commitment. 



Commitments to reduce plastic waste, convert to renewable energy sources, preserve wildlife habitats, and/or mitigate emission outputs are all honorable and necessary! The key to their success is to ensure that they are also quantifiable. What amount of plastic has been rescued from landfills, how much energy has been saved by switching to renewables, what are the impacts of habitat restoration, exactly how many tonnes of CO2 emissions have been removed from the atmosphere? These answers are critical for determining the value and progress of green strategies. 



Metrics and Carbon Credits



In some cases, exact quantifications are difficult to calculate and therefore, difficult to communicate. For this reason, individuals often support initiatives that are familiar to them and seem tangible, rather than seeking out the initiatives that accurately achieve their intended commitments. Tree planting, for example, offers the satisfying resolution that a living thing has just been cultivated and the result is cleaner air, restored habitats, and an enriched nature scene. All amazing outcomes! However, what are the quantifications of those outcomes and do they meet the intended commitment?  If the intended commitment was to simply take some sort of positive action, then this example is successful. However, if the commitment is to reduce carbon emissions, it is worth noting that on average it takes a tree 40 years to sequester 1 tonne of CO2. 



Carbon credits utilize a clear and straightforward metric equating to one tonne of CO2 equivalent. This means that each credit serves as a commodity that represents the sequestration or removal of 1 tonne of carbon dioxide or one tonne of its greenhouse gas equivalent from the atmosphere, thus offering full confidence in the outcome of your stewardship. Credits can be generated from projects such as tree planting, solar panel installation, biogas capture, organized carpooling, and much more. Credits offer a quantifiable approach for achieving sustainable commitments of all varieties. 



“Numbers don’t lie, but calculations might. How can I be sure the claims are accurate?” 



Transparency



Carbon credits are only issuable for retail once they have been appropriately certified. Some certification bodies to look out for include the Gold Standard, VCS, and Un’s CDM. Each of these organizations are purposed to ensure that all credit issuance is legitimate, valid in its reduction claims, and impactful to the project’s surrounding community. All certifications must undergo rigorous validation processes and be approved by third-party verifiers. These standards additionally host publicly accessible registries in which all individuals are free to view each of the credits the organization has ever issued, sold, and retired. Once a credit is retired it is no longer circulated through the market. This essentially equates to a no-return policy. Once a credit is purchased, it is yours and yours alone to claim! 



“From an administrative standpoint, it checks out. But what kind of environmental and social impact do they really have?”



Carbon Neutrality and the Benefits



Carbon credits are developed from a wide variety of projects based all around the world. Part of the certification process includes diligence on social impacts to their surrounding communities. Specifically, the project should contribute to the local economy as opposed to initiatives that recruit volunteers. Locals are equipped with the education and skills to run the projects independently, preservation projects can lead to diplomatic solutions to long-standing political tension, and overall livelihood is improved by providing a diverse means of income in small villages. These extended outcomes are referred to as co-benefits and more recently have been categorized by their ability to meet the commitments of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, a collaborative tactic for countries to mitigate their contribution to climate change. 



By purchasing carbon credits on your own behalf or through purchasing products that have offset their emissions, you can live a carbon-neutral lifestyle! While adopting cleaner habits such as using our purchasing power to support recycled products is a big step in the right direction, it is impossible to avoid certain emissions involved in the transportation of the said product, the manufacturing or processing of the product, and its inevitable disposal. Carbon credits allow individuals and businesses to address the impact of these unavoidable emissions associated with every-day activity. With the help of a life-cycle assessment, carbon credits offer a 1:1 ratio allowing a company to offset everything they cannot avoid and their consumers&#8217; peace of mind when purchasing their items or services. Individuals can also perform a carbon footprint assessment for their own lifestyles to determine the carbon footprint contribution they make on an individual level. In order to be carbon neutral, one must purchase as many credits (or as many tonnes) of CO2 as their activities produce. 



Bottom Line



Many businesses and individuals are committed to giving back to their cherished philanthropies. Carbon neutrality is a unique commitment that is capable of reaching goals in environmental impact, social welfare, hunger and poverty relief, water sanitation, sustainable urban development, and much more.

By Alyssa Bueno



Recently, a United Nation report found that 1,000,000 species are facing imminent extinction due to climate change. The report also finds that humans are responsible for significantly altering 75% of the land environment and 66% of the marine environment. 



The Problem



The fact that humans are responsible for wiping out entire species of plants, animals, and insects, should hit close to home. Confirmed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)’s fourth assessment of the science of climate change, its impacts and possible solutions, the panel of 2,500 scientists and other experts declared manmade global warming &#8220;unequivocal&#8221;. 



And human productivity is still growing. In fact, there has been a 300% increase in food crop production since the 1970s and one-third of the planet is devoted to agriculture. In addition to changing our terrestrial space, we are also adding enormous amounts of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere through burning of fossil fuels. We have already surpassed the previous 350 ppm threshold for carbon dioxide, and we are on track to exceed the danger zone of 450 ppm. In this context, the 2020 UN Sustainable Development Goals, as well as the Aichi Biodiversity Targets, are likely to be missed.



Species extinction is a strong signal and we need to take it seriously. If not for planet earth, then for ourselves because we depend heavily on ecosystem services provided by even the smallest creatures. Butterflies and bees pollinate over 75% of our food and plants create the very molecule we need to breathe. 



Although we aren’t feeling devastating consequences yet, the climate is palpably changing and we still have the opportunity to remedy the situation.



The Obstacles &amp; The Solution



Often times, we can feel overwhelmed by this massive problem. Or we feel disconnected because we live in urban areas far away from the magnificent animals we see in nature documentaries. However there is a way for us to measure each contribution we make to ease climate change impacts within our capacity.



The solution is carbon offsets. It directly links to carbon emissions reduction, which is the biggest cause of the climate crisis. 



Successfully Supporting Species



Carbon offset projects are generally seen as ways to reduce CO2. However, carbon offset projects have a multitude of co-benefits that add to the wellbeing of our environment, society, and future generations. Carbon Credit Capital only chooses projects that certified under globally recognized standards and are focused around accomplishing the Sustainable Development Goals. For example, our Gold Standard ADPML project in Brazil fulfills six of the 17 SDGs. By ensuring rainforest conservation, this project contributes to the following:



Good Health and Well-being (3) Affordable and Clean Energy (7) Reduced Inequalities (10) Sustainable Cities and Communities (11)  Climate Action (13) Life on Land (15)



By helping fund ADPML:   “Your support will enhance ecosystem functionality by allowing the regeneration of degraded forests; preventing on-going deforestation in the area, and protecting endangered plants and over 30 vulnerable species, including the giant anteater and the black-handed tamarind.”



The BaumInvest Mixed Reforestation project in Costa Rica provides ecological and socio-economic benefits for the local community. It contributes to the SDGs: Work + Economic Growth, Climate Action, and Life on Land. The project takes previously degraded land and uses it for a mix of agroforestry, as well as cultivates it as a forest reserve for native species. The Baird’s Tapir, Jaguar, and Great Green Macaw &#8211; all animals listed as threatened species &#8211; have been sighted on this preserve. Biodiversity monitoring is an integral part of this project to study the current state of populations and improve best practices. The goal of this project is to support local economy and prevent deforestation while providing healthy habitats for species to thrive. 



Essentially, all of us can make a difference that directly impacts biodiversity. We can actively support projects that decrease deforestation and recoup the negative effects of economic externalities. All in all, current carbon pricing systems represent nearly 20% of global emissions in addition to their co-benefits. Funding and supporting their important work will allow projects to thrive and expand their current efforts. By voting with our actions and our dollar, we can truly make a difference.





By Pianpian Wang



Since the 1970s, Earth Day has blossomed into a global day of action. Today, there are nearly 200 countries taking part in this day bringing attention to environmental problems that the earth is facing.



This year, Carbon Credit Capital (“CCC”) organized and participated in a few events to engage with the public on incorporating more sustainable lifestyles. In partnership with Good Clean Love, we held our first talk live on Instagram promoting a healthy sex life. This year also marks our second year as a partner with Earth Day Initiative. With this partnership, we advocated that vendors and attendees offset their carbon emissions caused by attending Earth Day New York 2019 at Union Square. During Earth Day Week, I had the opportunity to talk with several people and found some concerned about climate change or other environmental issues. Personally, I cannot stop thinking about how many will remain concerned but inactive after this week or who will realistically take action.



Most environmental problems do not affect people’s everyday lives. Therefore, Earth Day cannot be celebrated year-round unless we create a connection between the two. In this article, I will share observations on how to engage the public to take action. 



We Need to Create Win-Wins



One motive that prompts the majority of people to do things is “I want to do it.” Generally speaking, if people feel good about doing something, or they can get benefits in return, they are more likely to say “I want to do it.” This hypothesis is a crucial foundation to create win-win solutions to environmental problems. 



Here is an example to demonstrate a win-win situation. To respond to a trend that more and more people demand environmentally-friendly products, a company decides to make its products green without a significant price hike. When this product is presented with other ordinary counterparts, it is very likely that consumers will pick the green product. In this context, the company will sell more products than its competitors, which will motivate more companies to care about their products’ environmental impact. 



In practice, there are many examples that utilize market mechanisms to create win-win situations. For example, it saves more energy (and money) if we switch to LED lights, therefore the adoption rate of LED lights continues to increase in recent years. Another example is voluntary carbon credits. We can spend 50 cents a day to purchase carbon credits to mitigate our personal carbon footprint, and the money will be used to support low carbon projects. The essence of “I want to do it” is to make being green an economical option for individuals and businesses. 



We Have to Make it Obligatory



The legal obligation is another cause to force people and businesses to take rightful actions. In particular, for those industries who are pollution intensive, they have to keep the harm to the environment within legitimate ranges. 



Laws and regulations are usually laggy, therefore, we have to revisit them regularly to make sure the standards are up to date and the regulations can deal with the changing environment. Due to the fact that climate change impacts are very dynamic and have already brought challenges to the traditional legal framework (silo-based oriented), many countries are speeding up to revise the existing laws and regulations. For example, the UK requires that a company should disclose information about emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) from activities for which the company is responsible and a strategic plan to improve the status-quo. China is gearing up to force its publicly listed companies to disclose environmental information by 2020.



There is still room for regulations to make a strong push to achieve more ambitious carbon emission reduction goals, to develop adaptation measures and to increase the capacity of risk management in the context of climate change



We Can Start from Education



At this stage, education is the best entry point to make Earth Day every day. It does not only fill the public’s knowledge gaps on why they should care about climate change or other environmental issues, but also lets them know how they can help.



It reminds me of a lady I talked to at the Earth Day event held in Union Square. I explained to her the carbon emissions generated from an event. For example, the live music that she enjoyed consumes electricity and electricity generation needs to burn fossil fuels, and fossil fuels, as we all known, have carbon emissions. Let alone the brochure she got, the free samples she tried, and the free gifts she received from the event, and all of these involve a lot of manufacturing processes, which emits carbon emissions. She was surprised by these facts and decided to support low carbon projects that help remove carbon emissions from the atmosphere by offsetting her event attendance. In the end, she asked me if she can mitigate her travels’ carbon emissions too. This story shows that people are willing to take action when they are aware of what is going on.



With more education, people can understand what is a healthy lifestyle that is good for themselves and the planet; businesses can understand a sustainable path is more cost-effective in the long term. If we can make such learning as deep as possible, the understanding of the connection between people’s everyday lives and environmental problems will be strengthened, and eventually, Earth Day will be every day.   

We’ve got big news, just in time for Earth Day! Spring Bank is officially carbon-neutral! Spring Bank offset over 192,874.28 kg of CO2e and is helping to preserve the Amazon rainforest and support 80 indigenous families who live in the rainforests of Pará, Brazil as a result. Through a partnership with fellow B Corp, Carbon Credit Capital (&#8220;CCC&#8221;), Spring Bank spent the last several months assessing their carbon outputs in an “emissions inventory.”  The emissions inventory analyzed Spring Bank&#8217;s business operations from January 1 to December 31, 2018, from their headquarters in the Bronx and the Harlem branch across three significant externalities:



* Office Energy Consumption: CCC assessed Spring Bank&#8217;s use of grid electricity, renewable electricity and natural gas. As of November 1, 2018, Spring Bank proudly partnered with Green Mountain Energy to source 100 percent renewable energy. They also did a lighting energy saving upgrade at Spring Bank&#8217;s Bronx headquarter which saved 42,863 kWh. Overall, data showed us that Spring Bank&#8217;s 2018 energy consumption created an output of 69,985.66 kg CO2e. Spring Bank is excited that next year this number will be zero! * Office Waste: Spring Bank is taking significant steps to convert their office into a recycling-first, composting organization. Through a waste audit and partnership with GreenFeen OrganiX—a waste management, a worker-owned cooperative that uses innovative green technology and grassroots organizing to redesign current waste systems– these changes include separating organics, paper/cardboard, and metal/glass/plastic for more rigorous recycling and more frequent pick-up. Increased signage, employee training, and the pursuit of an electronics recycler partnership will be implemented in the next few months. Spring Bank&#8217;s waste emissions totaled 15,719.95 kg CO2e. * Employee Transportation: Spring Bank assessed the year-round commutes of 37 of its employees, including each employee’s commute distance, transportation modes, and seasonal habits. The carbon outputs of nine business trips outside of NYC and weekly average travel distances for customer site visits were also assessed. Spring Bank&#8217;s total transportation emissions for 2018 was 107,168.67 kgCO2e. * Through carbon credit purchase, Spring Bank supports ADPML, an organization who works with 80 indigenous families to train them in land and land-use stewardship in an area of the Brazilian rainforest that is being logged rapidly and illegally to make room for cattle ranching that further degrades the land. By ensuring over 368,000 acres of virgin rainforest will never be logged for cattle ranching, ADPML expects to reduce over 22 million metric tons (or over 48.4 billion pounds) of greenhouse gas.



As Spring Bank wrote on their website, &#8220;We are incredibly proud to be carbon neutral! As a B Corp bank, it’s a journey we’ve been on for many years, and we give gratitude to CCC for their partnership and guidance as they helped us achieve this milestone.&#8221;



“We are thrilled to help Spring Bank become carbon neutral and hope that they can be a beacon for other CDFI’s and financial institutions in general to do the same. Until now, the list of carbon neutral banks has been relatively concentrated among the Chases, and Bank of Americas of the world. With this announcement, we’re showing that carbon neutrality is possible and meaningful for everyone,” says Reed Shapiro, Director of Business Development at CCC.



Read about the Amazonian project that Spring Bank supports in Brazil. Go carbon neutral and partner with us to assess your footprint. Happy Earth Day!











Note: The original blog post was published on Spring Bank&#8217;s official website on April 22, 2019. CCC is authorized to share the article and made minor revisions to suit the content. 

By Reed Shapiro



Two weeks ago I was lucky enough to join the business, non-profit, and individual members of  1% for the Planet for the 3rd Annual Global Summit conference in Portland, Oregon. As I pursue a degree in sustainable business management, there are few places I can think of more fitting than this venue to have an ear to the ground on emerging business best (and positive) practices. 



For those who don’t know, 1% for the Planet is an initiative started in 2002, by Yvon Chouinard—the founder of Patagonia—to donate 1% of sales revenues to environmental and social-justice non-profit organizations on an annual basis. 1% for the Planet focuses on raising the percentage of philanthropic giving to the environment above its measly current contribution of 3% ($11 of $390 billion given annually). 1% delivers climate action funding from over 2,100 businesses to over 3,800 non-profits making positive environmental and social impacts. 



In 2018, the 1% network drove over $25 million in contributions to environmental stewardship, conservation, and a host of other beneficial programs. The network is made up of a range of everything from owner-operator solo consultancies to billion-dollar companies like Patagonia. This diversity shows up in the feel of the conference, and the milieu in which this mission-driven movement races into the future. Some might say this holds promise for the future of charitable giving. As Yvon put it the first night of the conference, we shouldn’t be thinking about environmental giving as “charity,” but rather as the cost of doing business, or “our rent,” for living on the planet.



Our Role in the Show



For the past two years, Carbon Credit Capital has been invited by the 1% team to help them offset the emissions associated with putting on an event with global attendance. The 1% team purchases carbon credits against the emissions for flights, hotels, food, and taxis. At the conference, announcements are made to encourage the 350 attendees to do the same. 



At day’s end, after the keynote speakers, panels, and workshops, there’s me with a cellphone, Square credit card reader, and a menu of carbon offset “bundles” for everyone to choose from. Attendees are broken down into four regions (Local, South West, Mid West, East Coast), each with geographic boundaries and generic carbon emissions calculations about maximum and minimum flight or car miles from within those boundaries. Individuals and companies that purchase these carbon offset bundles over the three days of the conference (companies if all attending employees are covered) is recognized as a carbon-neutral attendee (both individually, and as a company). 



Last year, the 1% team and a slew of attendees voluntarily mitigated over 19 metric tonnes of CO2-equivalent (over 42,000 pounds of emissions). This year, with this year’s increase in attendees, the total is 16.29 metric tonnes before including the 1% team, which last year contributed over 8 metric tonnes themselves. Perhaps this number can grow more with retroactive help from the 1% team.







Playing Part of Building a Movement—The Bigger Picture



Ultimately, while I enjoyed working with new partners and clients and making a name for myself as “the guy in the blazer,” there is a much bigger story to tell about what is happening in this network of small, medium and large businesses. 



Many conferences feature sponsors paying big bucks to talk about their great insights to a group who over-paid to get someone else’s success story that was specifically crafted so you can’t glean enough to copy that success. A different dynamic prevailed in Portland. Over the course of the 72 hours, it became clear that all of it designed to give the rest of us a spot at the table in ways that were accessible to us, and replicable for others. Here is an example.



Caroline Duell unwittingly created a product, that drove the birth of a company, and became the force behind banning toxic ingredients from sunscreen internationally. All Good started out as Caroline’s personal healing balm, made with herbs she grew herself. Over time, she had realized that two specific chemicals (avobenzone and oxybenzone) ubiquitously used in sunscreen were disrupting the genetic health of coral reefs and humans alike.  Just one or two drops of either chemical in a body of water as large as 12 Olympic swimming pools is enough to kill a reef, let alone mess up our own endocrine systems. 



All Good’s story is one of an individual creating a good product that sparked a values-aligned community, one which put a premium on not harming its users, and its users’ environments. As this community grew, so did its collective impact. She gained a serious following of fans of her goop. Soon, All Good was recognized as one of very few companies in the world not using these toxic chemicals. It became the posterchild for non-toxic sunscreen and personal care products. 



In July of 2018, Hawaii banned the two chemicals (and therefore the sale of any product containing them). This blow to companies that rely on the compounds was even backed by an endorsement from the FDA in February of this year. THE FDA, the same organization hesitant to require labeling GMO foods. All Good Products fomented a wave that swept across a state, one of the historically most stodgy and dubiously governed federal agencies, and now the world. 



There’s Something Bigger, Happening Better Here



All Good is a small company—just one company, a proverbial drop in the bucket of firms and cash flows and global financial markets—started and run by a woman whose house-rocking speech sounded more like The Dude than Jamie Dimon or Simon Sinek. But that drop in the bucket supports lobbying and advocacy for environmental and conservation legislation, and habitat protection by giving one percent of its revenues to non-profit organizations committed to those causes. Duell says it all happened because of better business—it all started with the idea to create a healing product, not with dreams of billion dollar profits.



Source: Nielsen



Yvon Chouinard, in a one-on-one conversation with Kate Williams, the CEO of 1% for the Planet, said much the same. Patagonia was born out of his need for good climbing gear, in an arena where bad climbing gear could get you killed. As it happened, a lot of other people wanted good gear to keep them safe and prepared, as well—go figure. Patagonia is, by any definition of the word, a successful company. But Yvon considers their contribution to safety and quality, as well as their stewardship of the environment and the natural resources they use to make their real products. These are higher on the list of things he’s proud of than their billion-dollar balance sheet. Running the company this way has made what could have been “sticky situations” on ethics and impact no-brainers.



Most companies would think that donating millions of dollars in sales from Black Friday is a terrible idea. Yvon thought it was a great way to stand up to the Trump Administration’s election and a rebuke of the Paris Agreement. As the announcement went out, the projected sales of $2 million grew to over $10 million. Yvon had been a little concerned about the money they might miss out on. However, in the aftermath of that day and in the following months, Patagonia realized they had picked up a significant percentage of new customers, who became repeat buyers. The money Patagonia gave away from Black Friday ended up being a cheaper marketing investment than Patagonia’s typical spend to acquire new customers per person. A one-time stunt, after all the hoopla, resulted in sticky business and recurring accounts and, them’s the facts.



Marc Randolph, the co-founder of Netflix, addressed the conference the next morning. He gave his recount of how Netflix became what it was after being $50 million in the hole and laughed out of a meeting at Blockbuster. It turns out Yvon Chouinard, Caroline Duell and Marc Randolph all found that the product, service, and impact of their firms were ultimately higher considerations than the business part of their companies; this holistic approach works. Netflix, which Marc noted was founded (and still operates) on the premise that “No one knows anything,” is now valued at over $160 billion, and Blockbuster is, well, busted.



This is a much different lens than, “we’re going to make this product cheaper than those guys, market the hell out of it, and make a boat load of money.” This is a, “we’re going to do it right, do the best we can, and the fact that it makes money is a by-product, or an afterthought” lens.



That Doesn’t Sound Like the Right Way to Make Money?!



So, a bunch of environmentalists got together and shared stories. Great. Who else cares? The lesson is that the conventional wisdom that spending money without a direct, project-related return is always a bad idea may really be seeing its day. NYU Stern’s Center for Sustainable Business has found that products marketed as sustainable in the CPG sector grew 5.6 times faster than conventional products from 2013 to 2018. Of course, many “green” bandwagon investments are hollow and susceptible to greenwashing. Blindly funding a cause that is tangential, or strapped-on to your brand is rarely good business. 



Ultimately, consumers want a healthy body and mind, and a healthy planet on which to live healthy lives. While the ESG investors, funds, and State pension plans may still be afraid to spend significant portions of their portfolios on what they consider symbolic gestures, the 30-50% of the consumers their portfolio companies depend upon for growth as a company eat it up. This is the world we live in now: people live, sleep, eat, and shop their values in mainstream numbers. Companies slow to the game will be dining on their faster-moving competitors’ dirt—if they are not already. 



Brewing Scalable Positive Impact



The 1% for the Planet network is different from corporate philanthropy. The Global Summit was a convening of businesses, non-profits, and individuals from around the world deadest on making a positive impact through their actions on this earth, no matter how big a commitment, or small a contribution. This isn’t a club, literally, anyone can join. And with every new 1%-er, or B Corp comes not just a check to a charity, but a platform to co-create positive impact on our own terms—the type that consumers want, the world needs, and that the smartest of us would be wise to study. If the keynotes from this conference are any indication, when your business aligns its values, passions, and key campaigns with what they feel is right, you will not be disappointed with your financial performance.

New York, New York &#8211; April 4, 2019



The Raw Office Inc. has launched an industry leading 100% carbon neutral checkout experience for office supply buyers. With over 52,00 office products cataloged for carbon emissions, Raw Office has launched the first ever office supply program to offset all emissions associated with the sale and delivery of offices products on its next generation B2B e-commerce platform. Jeff Golfman Founder of Raw Office says “We are excited to be able to offset the greenhouse gas emissions of all of the products that we are selling at zero cost to our customers.”



Raw Office has teamed up with New York-based Carbon Credit Capital (CCC) to map all product emissions from raw material procurement, through manufacture, packaging, onward distribution and shipping of products to customers’ doorsteps. Reed Shapiro of CCC states, “Raw Office is taking full responsibility for the impacts, not just of their own operations, but their suppliers and distributers as well. This type of full-cost accounting is ground breaking in  corporate responsibility. We’re excited to help The Raw Office lead the way for all companies—not just office suppliers.”



Each product available for purchase has been assigned a carbon footprint derived from primary Raw Office, distributor, supplier, and manufacturer data where available. The Raw Office will purchase carbon offsets from bio and landfill gas capture projects in both the US Northwest and China, where such projects are grid compatible, displacing coal and dirtier fossil fuels with biogas. Credits are procured through Bonneville Environmental Foundation (BEF) in the US, and Umwelt-Projekt-Management GmbH in China. 



The purchases of carbon credits through BEF will count towards The Raw Office’s 1% for the Planet certification, as BEF is a 1% for the Planet non-profit member. All three parties—Raw Office, CCC and BEF —are members of the environmental non-profit network, which drives financing for environmental non-profits through corporate giving of 1% of revenues annually. Heather Shrock of Bonneville says, “BEF is thrilled to explore these amazing partnerships with our fellow 1% for the Planet organizations, working together towards the greater goal of reducing greenhouse gasses in the atmosphere.”



For more information, read the full blog post from The Raw Office here.







About The Raw Office



Raw Office saves businesses an average of 20% on office supplies and 10% administrative labor via its next-generation procurement platform. Raw Office identifies and solves inefficiencies in current procurement processes, outputs suggested improvements and automates the reordering and fulfillment process. Raw Office emphasizes environmentally­friendly products, reducing clients’ average eco­footprint by 200%. 



About Carbon Credit Capital



CCC helps companies, individuals and institutions measure and manage their greenhouse gas emissions. CCC’s Carbon Neutral Checkout® program combines greenhouse gas assessment with sensible strategies to offset emissions through projects and programs that align with brand, consumer, and stakeholder visions and values. CCC believes climate action should be simple and attractive for everyone, and works closely with partners to turn their dreams into reality.



About Bonneville Environmental Foundation



BEF empowers your business to be in balance with the environment through a full suite of products, programs and custom solutions that help address your environmental footprint. BEF align their extensive industry expertise with your business goals to achieve immediate impact today while helping solve tomorrow’s biggest business sustainability challenges.

By Shannon Mora



Recently, I proposed the concept of carbon neutrality to an amazing company, whose mission I admire deeply. Their response was not unlike many I have heard before:



“As a carbon-conscientious company, [we] realizes the heavy toll that returns shipping takes on the environment and we have committed to offering more eco-friendly solutions. Our boxes and packing paper are actually made from 100% post-consumer recycled materials…. You won&#8217;t find a company more committed to maintaining and improving on our values and sustainability!”



As an environmentalist and a carbon accountant, quotes like the one above provoke a question I believe we all need to ask ourselves, “are we doing enough?”. The likely answer is unfortunately, no. This is not to discourage emission reduction efforts in our personal lifestyle and/or production method changes. Nor is this answer intended to discredit the differences such conversions can make! Quite the opposite. These efforts should be celebrated! Yet, they must also be viewed through a realistic lens. 



The reality is, carbon low is good. Carbon neutral is better. If we can achieve better within our capacity, why should we compromise?



True Footprint



Typically, operational emissions, those released through the use of the product, take the spotlight in sustainability conversations. However, we also need to consider the supply chain emissions.



The general idea here is that every product that is made releases greenhouse gas emissions during the extraction, manufacturing, and disposal process. These are referred to as upstream and downstream emissions, which have been largely ignored in consumer decision making and highly underrepresented in retail pricing. 



For example, we often hear about emissions released from vehicles on the road and the reductions made by switching to more fuel-efficient options. Yet, the emissions associated with creating and manufacturing these alternatives are excluded from the equation and thus are ignored by the consumers. This gives the false sense that operational reductions are sufficient enough, when in fact much more is needed and can be accomplished! 







We Can Do More



We cannot solve a problem that we have not fully evaluated. While engaging in reduction practices such as fuel switching, recycling material, and decreasing waste are important, they can only get a product to carbon low. 



To be carbon neutral or even carbon positive, companies first need accurate information about the emissions that are released in their supply chain so that they may make appropriate reduction decisions and educate their consumers. These data points can be obtained by conducting a life-cycle assessment (LCA), which calculates all emissions associated with their products and services. Hotspots for innovation can then be accurately identified and reduction strategies may be implemented in areas they will be most effective.



However, after making as many environmentally conscious changes as possible based on LCA data points, there will still be unavoidable emissions associated with the product. Even a fully repurposed product made from all recycled, organic vegan materials must be processed in some way and likely shipped to their consumer. This is the cross roads between carbon low and carbon neutral. 



Currently, the most realistic and reliable way to achieve carbon neutrality is via carbon offset purchases. Offsets allow business owners to offset the unavoidable emissions from their products and services after they have decreased their output to as low as possible. Offsets also allow individuals to take matters into their own hands, and offset their own purchases where business owners have not yet implemented carbon neutrality. One can offset a vacation flight, their online shipments from various stores, and so much more! 







We can always imagine one day there will be a product made completely by recycled materials, manufactured in an entirely solar powered plant, packaged in upcycled organic materials, with zero waste, and shipped to each of their customers via electric powered cars. Until that product actually exists, companies with a sustainable-mindset should not be satisfied with current reduction efforts. When it comes to preserving our planet and our resources, you can never do too much.

By Alyssa Bueno



Despite our best efforts, every product we buy has a carbon footprint. That footprint grows if we opt to ship purchases to our door. And the biggest carbon sin occurs when we click that oh so convenient 2-day prime delivery. Although Amazon offers us free shipping, the environment bears the true cost.



The Cost of Convenience



Expedited shipping means that more cars, trucks, and planes are used to deliver your package as fast as possible. More waste is created in the cumbersome plastic packaging and cardboard boxes used to ship your goods. 



In response to concerns about waste, Amazon launched its ‘Frustration-Free Packaging’ program and in 2017 eliminated 16% of its waste, avoiding the use of 305 million shipping boxes. Despite their addition of Amazon Prime fleets to 50 aircraft last year, the retail giant also announced its pledge to half its emissions by 50% in 2030. However, considering that the Sustainable Development Goals are expected to be achieved in 2030, is this an ambitious enough goal for the world’s largest online e-commerce store?



Striving Toward Sustainable Development



Retail companies across the board are now making greater strides toward reducing their environmental impact. Etsy, an e-commerce website focused on handmade and vintage items, announced that it will offset all the CO2 generated from shipping purchases. Chelsea Mozen, sustainability lead at Etsy states:



“The free shipping we’re used to actually isn’t free. When people think of the environmental impact from e-commerce, they immediately jump to packaging—but emissions from shipping has a big environmental cost”.



Last year, shipping accounted for 98%, or 135,000 tons, of Etsy’s total carbon footprint. While this may seem like a large number, the price to offset is very small, especially when it is broken down by individual purchase. Going carbon neutral is really a miniscule economic cost, and it provides reparations for the impact of our consumer culture. At the very least, we can offset the damage we have done.



Etsy, among other companies’ decisions to go carbon neutral paves the way for a common practice in companies to take responsibility for the environmental impact of their business. Other companies are taking a slightly different route toward carbon neutrality. Reformation, a sustainable fashion company, has been carbon neutral since 2015 but is revitalizing its campaign by offering customers a $100 Reformation gift card to switch over their energy source to Arcadia Power, a renewable energy provider. Reformation also sells carbon offset packages directly on its website, in an industry-wide push to bring more awareness to the importance of carbon neutrality especially in the fashion business, where clothing inherently requires high resource inputs and can be a major source of pollution.



Going carbon neutral is not solely a philanthropic effort. Companies both big and small see the opportunity for capitalizing on carbon neutrality. As Reed Shapiro, Director of Business Development of Carbon Credit Capital states, “companies can achieve a lower cost of capital, better operational performance, and positive trends in stock price growth when sound environmental, governance, and social metrics are employed”. 



How You Can Shop Sustainably



In addition to choosing companies that strive for sustainability within their supply chain and their practices, you can also make consumer choices to lower your carbon footprint.



1. Resist the urge to buy too much stuff! Be very deliberate with your purchases and try to stick to the necessities because unwanted items eventually become waste. 2. Don’t click the fastest shipping speed, even if it’s free. Expedited shipping is less environmentally friendly.3. Try ordering multiple items at once, instead of purchasing them one at a time.4. If stores are accessible to you via walking, biking, or public transport &#8211; opt to buy in-store as opposed to online.5. Offset your impact by purchasing carbon credits.



At Carbon Credit Capital, we can offset every part of your lifestyle &#8211; from food to fashion to travel. By supporting environmental projects that engage in reforestation and renewable energy, you can remove the carbon emissions associated with your shipped purchases. 

New York City-based Yoga Foster, which aims to provide free and low-cost training, lesson plans, yoga mats and more for educators to bring mindfulness and yoga into elementary schools, recently partnered with Carbon Credit Capital (“CCC”) to offset all shipments of yoga mats via our Carbon Neutral Checkout® Program. 



Yoga Foster is a nonprofit that empowers educators with yoga training, lesson plans and yoga mats. We rally the wellness community to support our work through our mat drive program, which allows partners to collect gently-used yoga mats from their guests, and ship them to Yoga Foster classrooms. Yoga Foster also conducts research showing that when students can use breaks in the day to practice mindfulness and exercise (i.e. yoga) they are able to study more efficiently and stay focused for longer periods of time. With this highly impactful mission at its core, Yoga Foster’s founder, Nicole Cardoza was named as one of Forbes’  30 Under 30 in Education 2017. 



“We really like Yoga Foster’s initiative to bring yoga into elementary classrooms,” says Reed Shapiro, Director of Business Development of CCC. “Not only does the practice of yoga and mindfulness help bring a more conscious and compassionate generation into the world, but this partnership allows the concept of carbon neutrality and environmental stewardship to spread into part of their education.” As climate change becomes an increasingly serious concern today’s youth will face throughout their lifetimes, it is crucial to spread awareness about what can be done to people of all ages.



“We can’t ignore the negative impact that donating and distributing yoga mats has on the environment. As we continue to scale this program, it’s imperative that we do so with care. I’m honored that we can support a U.S. based carbon negative initiative through this partnership, and make the future a bit more healthy for our students,” says Nicole Cardoza, Executive Director of Yoga Foster.



Through the partnership, Yoga Foster will mitigate the carbon emissions generated from the shipment of yoga mats from donors to schools around the country. CCC has developed metrics to measure the emissions from the shipment of mats sent from generous donors to the elementary beneficiaries, and YogaFoster will purchase carbon credits to balance the negative impacts of making those shipments. In fact, Yoga Foster has even committed to offsetting two times the amount of carbon required to consider all shipments carbon neutral—making the initiative completely carbon “positive,” or removing more carbon from the atmosphere than was created in the first place. 



Yoga Foster will support GEC Organics Waste Composting Project, an organization which reduces carbon emissions by converting chicken manure, food waste and green waste into organic soil that can reduce fertilizer in agriculture applications. GEC is one of only three US-based carbon offset projects to achieve Gold Standard project verification, one of the highest such standards in the world. The standard ensures that carbon credits are real, verifiable and capable of making measurable contributions to sustainable development worldwide. Now, every mat donated through the mat drive will not only give the gift of yoga and mindfulness to a child in need, but it will also drive the reduction of pollution, and the replenishment of our soil across the country.

By Pianpian Wang



When we talk about adopting market mechanisms to reduce carbon emissions, what do we really mean? The reality is the following: either create economic incentives for organizations to lower their carbon footprint (the mandatory carbon market), or build a market-based trading platform where organizations and individuals can invest in projects to reduce carbon and promote social well being. The latter is not required by law, and it is also known as the voluntary carbon market.



The trading unit of carbon emissions circulated in both the mandatory and voluntary markets is referred to as a carbon permit and carbon credit, respectively. They are essentially the same concept with different names. 



These two markets are different in many ways. However, the market value of carbon emissions matters to both carbon systems. This article aims to explore the factors that affect the markets’ prices.



The Rise of the Mandatory Market?



The EU emissions trading system (EU ETS) has shown a strong increasing price tendency since April 2018, and each carbon permit soared from 8 euros a tonne to around 25 euros. As the first major carbon market started in 2005 that remains the largest, the EU ETS’  trading activities and rising prices have sent a strong signal to those businesses and organizations that advocate market mechanisms as one crucial solution to greenhouse gas reduction. It offers encouragement to people who became cynical of the market mechanism after the collapse of EU ETS during the economic downturn in 2008. 



The price increase indicates three important messages. First, more participants are joining the market. Second, emission reductions may become more and more vital to a  businesses’ path towards sustainable development. Third, the more capital that flows into the market, the  stronger indication there is that the EU ETS will meet its mitigation goals.



The growing trust in the EU ETS lies in the trading system’s recent reforms. Since the financial crisis, the ETS has suffered from an excess supply of carbon permits. However starting in 2021, a new phase aims to take the lessons learned from before by establishing bigger reductions goal and properly adjusting the number of allowances to be placed in the Market Stability Reserve. The Market Stability Reserve is a measure that removes surplus allowances from the year before. It is also worth mentioning that one of the foci in the new phase is to “help industry and the power sector to meet the innovation and investment challenges of the low-carbon transition”. This will also give participants confidence that the market will provide returns in multiple ways. 



It is clear that a stable and well-designed trading environment provided by governmental policies and regulations is the main catalyst to price changes in the mandatory carbon market. We need to keep in mind that a set of policies for mandatory carbon markets usually remains valid from 5 to 10 years. It is the government who decides which industries are obligated to join the market. 



The profit margin for project owners would be limited in the mandatory market, and it is safe to assume that the government would intervene when trading prices are abnormal. After all, the government’s ultimate goal is to reduce carbon emissions instead of encouraging highly inflated market prices.







The Strong Potential of the Voluntary Carbon Market



According to the transactions between January to March in 2018, the average price of a carbon credit is $2.4/tCO2e. While Ecosystem Marketplace, a non-profit organization that compiles an annual report for the voluntary carbon market, has tracked average prices ranging between $3-$6/tCO2e, it also has records shown actual prices range from under $0.1/tCO2e to just over $70/tCO2e. The wide price range reflects the flexibility and competitiveness of the voluntary carbon market.



A  factor that has led to the price difference is the type of carbon credits generated. According to the Gold Standard Foundation, wind projects’ carbon credits are the cheapest, while energy efficiency fuel switching, ozone-depleting, and agroforestry projects are higher than other types.  Carbon credit projects under the forestry and renewable energy categories had more transactions than other projects in the first quarter of 2018 and the year of 2017. This means that these projects are more popular in the voluntary carbon market. 



Another factor that contributes to the price of carbon credits is the location of the carbon credit project. According to a survey conducted by Stanford University and Yale University, projects occurring in developing and least-developing nations are significantly more expensive than those taking place in industrialized nations, by an average of nearly 20%. This is  because it is more expensive to provide education and training to staff in least-developing countries. In addition, because such projects are usually developed in remote areas of these countries, this poses more challenges and costs to the developers and local communities in to keep the projects in healthy operations.



Furthermore, policies and regulations indirectly drive the price of the carbon credits in the voluntary carbon market as well. The Yale survey also found that offsets that are certified under the Clean Development Mechanism (“CDM”) or the Gold Standard are more than 30% higher priced than carbon credit projects certified by other standards. 



Finally, the private sector’s commitments on emissions reductions could also affect the price of carbon credits in the voluntary carbon market. Currently, many companies have initiated reduction goals in order to be more cost-effective on energy usage, for pre-empting government regulations, or to enhance their corporate social responsibility (“CSR”). Carbon credits not only reduce greenhouse gases, but also create co-social benefits to the area of the project locations, including but not limited to wildlife conservation, clean water access and improve sanitation level of the community. These co-benefits commonly align with companies’ CSR missions. In practice, companies generally demand carbon credits certified by well-recognized standards and pick projects associated with co-benefits that are relevant to their brand. 



Overall, while a well-designed trading scheme is the only factor that affects the market value of carbon permits in the mandatory carbon market, the voluntary market is affected by several factors that influence the price of their carbon credits. This generates a potential for businesses to be a major player in solving environmental and social problems. 



A Brighter Future?



Nowadays, countries such as China, Japan, and New Zealand are developing their own national carbon markets for mandatory trading. This helps spread the concept of building emissions goals into governmental policy. Meanwhile, the business sector is trending toward undertaking more responsibilities in playing an influential role in international climate negotiations. This mindset helps engage with the public and other social sectors in the carbon emission reduction movement as a whole.



Eventually, the two carbon markets can stimulate each other’s development, and could bolster a global carbon market that would allow trading carbon emissions between the two.

By Shannon Mora



A plastic bag floating down the city street has become New York’s version of a tumbleweed in an old western film. They are everywhere and symbolize the promise of an eminent duel&#8212;sustainability initiatives versus small businesses.



Legislative Burden



In 2008 former Mayor Bloomberg attempted to address the increasing plastic bag pollution with a 6 cent tax on all bags used in grocery and corner stores.  The motive was to encourage the use of reusable, cloth carriers as a substitute to one-use plastic bags. However, the tax failed then and again in 2016 under the criticism that it would cause “undue financial burden to the poor”.  One bodega owner expressed his fear of losing customers as a result of such a tax. In response, he said, “They ask us for plastic bags for free as it is. When we say no, they curse us out. They demand a bag for a 25-cent bag of chips.”  



The problem with using plastic bags has only worsened since then. They pollute our streets, waterways, release toxic chemicals once they break down, and end up either in landfills or oceans. Understanding this crisis, Governor Cuomo has supported a far stricter approach that is expected to be in effect this year- A complete ban on plastic bags from being provided at supermarkets, delis, and bodegas. Unfortunately, while this ban is effective in decreasing the New Yorker’s contribution to plastic pollution, it does not solve the initial issue of contributing undue burden to business owners nor does it address their fear of losing business. 



Alternative: Market Mechanisms



Perhaps the conclusion is that strong arming business owners into rules they are unable to comply with or will suffer from, is likely not the appropriate answer to our climate problem. Instead, we need to be able to provide financially feasible and flexible opportunities for businesses to participate in climate action. This is the very reason Carbon Credit Capital (&#8220;CCC&#8221;) is in business. 



In order to impact market behavior effectively, either the government may take legislative action or market mechanisms may naturally create solutions. This can be described as the processes by which the players in a free market determine supply and demand.



To explore this demand, CCC has compiled the data from 9 case studies to show how consumers truly feel about low-carbon products. These case studies were performed over the course of eight years, 2009-2017, and had overwhelming results that showed the vast majority (55%-88%) of consumers prefer low-carbon products. Furthermore, this consumer preference was shown to increase overtime and even be a more critical consideration than cost and brand reputation. Due to this evidence and the proof in our work, we firmly believe that as consumer awareness of low-carbon substitutes rise, the percentage of environmentally conscious market share will follow. 



These studies prove there is an existing demand for low-carbon and low impact products. It is now up to business owners to supply to this group of consumers. Thus, securing this market share could be a way to alleviate the financial burden and fear posed by a tax or a ban.  



How Can We Help You Become Low-Carbon?



The answer is simple and actually affordable: perform life-cycle assessments (LCA) for your product’s carbon footprint! An LCA is a comprehensive evaluation of your supply chain that provides valuable insights for emission hotspots and opportunities for innovation, allowing you to accurately target your impact. Thus, streamlining your time and effort most efficiently. Most importantly, the data outcomes from these assessments allow you to communicate directly to your consumer. You are able to transparently convey that you are taking responsibility for your product, setting appropriate goals to minimize this impact, and offsetting all emissions in the meantime.



Our mission is to provide a means for businesses of any size to take responsibility of their product impact and to empower all consumers to easily participate in climate action. We achieve this through performing affordable LCA’s and running a program that allows business owners to educate their consumers. 



Next Step



If you have questions about LCA’s, how much they will cost for your business, how we conduct our evaluations, or how offsetting works, please email us for a free consultation! We are happy to discuss your options.

By Reed Shapiro



The benefits of sustainability cannot be an elite luxury only big companies enjoy—it has to be for everyone.



The business case for sustainability is well proven across a multitude of industries, and even macroeconomic scenarios. Hundreds of studies from institutions like Harvard, Oxford, MIT and many more now detail how companies can achieve a lower cost of capital, better operational performance, and positive trends in stock price growth when sound environmental, governance, and social metrics are employed throughout a firm. Look at the success of Interface, which evolved from a simple carpet manufacturer to a global leader in commercial flooring, creating a model business case for sustainability for any industry.



For the biggest businesses in the world, the question of, “How can we justify cost related to ‘sustainability?’” has evolved into “How can we justify the costs of not becoming leaner, greener, and more protected against future risk and current market uncertainties?” This is true for the entire auto industry as key players grapple with how to go all electric and ditch the internal combustion engine (ICE). Fuel emission standards are tightening globally and 16 countries and 22 cities announced bans on new sales of gasoline and diesel vehicles by 2040, some as early as 2020 in South Korea. Eight more will follow by 2030. 



Kevin Hagen’s “Phases of Change” diagram shows how better performance as a business lies in being a better business.



If all this movement is happening at the national, and Inc. 5,000—large national and multi-national corporation levels, what’s happening in the real world?



Various sources around the inter-webs pin the estimate of active businesses in the world at somewhere between 100 and 200 million. Even if all companies on  the Inc. 1 million (a list of the world’s big companies that doesn’t exist) had perfect ESG metrics today (no labor conflicts, zero emissions and waste, 100% renewable energy and impactful work that drives productivity, and brands that drive customer loyalty)—what sort of progress is the other 99% of the world’s firms making?



I haven’t heard about it. Have you?



That’s because small and medium-sized enterprises (“SMEs”) are only just awakening to the opportunities that establishing principles of sustainable management unleash. It’s not that the integration sustainability best practices is only applicable to the Fortune 500. SMEs who range in the $10’s of thousands of dollars in revenue to right around $1 billion mark are leaving substantial financial gains on the table. There are examples. A family-owned tortilla manufacturers doing about $10 million in revenues has been able to save $100,000 annually, with payback in year one. Extrapolated out to a billion-dollar firm, that’s $10,000,000 in annual savings. That’s a lot of extra guac.



So why haven’t firms all around the world started on this sustainability journey to achieve the best results they can as a company? Small businesses don’t have the time, attention, or money to put into an upfront investment on any sustainability initiatives. They don’t know where to start and have no guidance on how to use best practices to make sound decisions along the way. Without a light at the end of the tunnel to attract them, business owners and gatekeepers simply won’t make the leap.



Nevertheless, there are businesses, be they major multi-nationals, or local mom-and-pops, and everyone in between, who have “seen the light,” who have struggled through their own sustainability journeys, uncovering valuable insights along the way. Is there a way to network these beacon businesses and provide a platform where the lagging majority of businesses can learn from them? There must be ways to get more SMEs to sit down at the table and see the sustainability journey not as a quagmire of cost, but rather, as the path to prosperity, desirable to external stakeholders. 







Maybe the more important question is how, and what mix of incentives can get the laggard majority into action? 



Incentives of material cost reductions, improved perceptions among patrons, protection against risk, and boosts in employee engagement may not be enough. Perhaps there are businesses in specific locales who could serve as living case studies, showcasing the efficacy of sustainable management, and proving themselves to be better companies for their efforts. Reputations as local leaders, and positively bumped growth trajectories are on the table. What is needed is a catalyzing force and support network to spark a chain reaction.



My own small business is linked to a nationally networked, integrated-bottom-line group of businesses that might be able to provide the underlying support for this spark. We are a Certified B-Corp, and a business member of 1% for the Planet. We belong to the Green America Green Business Network. Between these three organizations alone, there are thousands of green businesses who have both taken the sustainability journey, and who help other firms develop aspects of their own story. What is more, these networks have local networks and chapters who cultivate their own vibrant sub-networks of sustainable best practice.



These developments are fairly new, and are still growing themselves. However, it is possible that the fire-power strong enough to get SMEs to sit at the table, and open their eyes to the possibilities ahead may already exist—it just needs to be properly aligned before we can hit the bullseye. I hope to work on turning these from thoughts into reality, because, in case you haven’t heard, we need to figure it out, quickly.







This article is originally published in Bard MBA in Sustainability.

By Alyssa Bueno



Most people think of the new year as a fresh start, a new beginning. But that’s far from true when it comes to our environment. We don’t get a new planet. 



2019 nearly marks the halfway point for when the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are expected to be achieved. These 17 goals set forth by the United Nations are aimed at mitigating climate change to improve global human welfare. In order to meet these goals, we need to track our current progress.



How Did We Do in 2018?



Well, 2018 marked a record high for carbon emissions worldwide. A report from the Rhodium Group found that emissions grew by 3.4% this year, after an increase of 1.6% in 2017. This means that not only are carbon emissions accumulating, but they are being released at a faster rate. Moreover, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (&#8220;IPCC&#8221;) released a dire report warning of imminent climate catastrophe unless policymakers across all nations cut emissions in half by 2045.



Despite (or in response to) these ominous findings, 2018 set the stage for major climate policy reform. A number of states in the US passed progressive environmental legislation, specifically aiming to be carbon neutral. Governor Brown set the most ambitious climate target in history by issuing an executive order to make California carbon neutral by 2045. Governor Cuomo of New York announced his goal for electricity to be 100% carbon neutral by 2040. 



Similarly, countries across the world have made the pledge to be carbon neutral by 2050. 19 countries and 32 cities including Canada, Denmark, Spain, the UK, and the Marshall Islands joined the Carbon Neutrality Coalition. This group aims to use strategies and goals set forth by the Paris Agreement to achieve net zero carbon emissions and deliver on the SDGs. Starting in 2019, the next ten years will be a crucial time to make major headway on these goals.



Achieving the SDGs to Mitigate Climate Change



The SDGs recognize that solving climate change and ending poverty and other deprivations go hand-in-hand. Luckily, it is possible for nations, businesses, and individuals to take action in achieving the SDGs and fight climate change. 



Source: UN News







 Carbon Offsets as A Solution 



As we know, climate change is the result of anthropogenic emissions being released into the atmosphere. By reforesting previously degraded ecosystems and switching out fossil-fuel dependent technologies, we can reduce our carbon footprint and begin absorbing carbon through natural processes. 



Economists favor carbon pricing policies, such as California’s carbon market, as the best way to reduce carbon emissions and spur sustainable development. The goal is that businesses are now incentivized to finance environmental projects that restore ecosystems or use renewable energy. This works because trading emissions permits across companies tends to be costly, companies generally opt to fund carbon offset projects to reduce their own net emissions. This year, California met their emissions goals years ahead of schedule. The state decreased carbon pollution by 13% below 2004 levels while maintaining significant economic growth of 26%. 



Both the mandatory and voluntary carbon markets are key in reducing emissions. In 2018, companies, governments, and individuals purchased a record high of carbon credits resulting in 42.8Mt of CO2e being retired.



How You Can Help Achieve the SDGs 



Regardless of state policies, by purchasing carbon credits, countries, states, and individuals can also neutralize their own annual carbon footprint. The funding goes to verified environmental projects that work explicitly to remove, reduce, or avoid greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Certified carbon offset projects work hard to become verified under the UN Gold Standard, Verified Carbon Standard, and the Climate, Community, and Biodiversity Alliance. Additionally, projects also have a number of co-benefits that work to reduce poverty, promote education, improve health, among other beneficial outcomes. As a group, these outcomes achieve all 17 SDGs and should be highly valued as a key solution to the 2030 targets.



At the end of the day, we can’t achieve the economic and social goals we’ve set for ourselves without first addressing the underlying issue: climate change. If carbon offsets can help accomplish our goals without major economic upheaval and improve social and sustainable development, then it’s a win-win for everyone.

Experiential Journeys PVT. LTD. has teamed up with Carbon Credit Capital (“CCC”) to completely mitigate the carbon footprint of their safari tours and camping trips through CCC’s Carbon Neutral Checkout® program. 



Experiential Journeys, a Sri Lankan company, offers Wildlife Tours, Architecture Exploration Tours, Adventure Tours, Birding Tours and other themed tours that reflect the historic features, and both natural and cultural beauty of Sri Lanka. 



Anuruddha Bandara, Experiential Journeys’ founder, places a strong emphasis on social and environmental responsibility in his business’ practices and operations, including pangolin conservation, urban wetland protection, and initiatives to work with local farmers to protect elephants from hunting and exploitation. 



To further enhance the their sustainability journey, Experiential Journeys decided to make their Sri Lankan tours carbon neutral by joining CCC’s Carbon Neutral Checkout® program, which will match a specific amount of carbon offset credits with the carbon footprints of each tour. Experiential Journeys already understands the value of ecotourism and its potential to teach others about how to live a sustainable lifestyle in tune with the natural world. They also understand that traveling to and around exotic destinations has its own negative impacts. “This partnership is the right next step to ensuring that Experiential Journeys message of leaving no negative impacts matches their actions, and that their guests have a way to play their part as well,” says Reed Shapiro, Director of Business Development of CCC. 



Through Carbon Neutral Checkout®, each tourist traveling with Experiential Journeys through Sri Lanka can reduce their carbon footprint to net zero by purchasing a number of carbon credits equal the emissions generated from their tour. Purchases can be made through a private link on CCC’s website that is accessible from Experiential Journeys’ website. The money travelers pay for offsets will be used to support local and international carbon credit projects in southeast Asia, and the continuation of those projects’ operations, as they remove carbon emissions from the atmosphere. 



To learn more about the projects you can support, visit CCC’s website, and to book an unforgettable experience, schedule a trip Experiential Journeys.

By Pianpian Wang



You might be familiar with the concept of financial disclosure, which refers to the financial performance and condition of a company (usually a listed company). With the increased attention to climate change impacts, climate disclosure is brought to the spotlight in recent years. 



What Information is Included in the Climate Disclosure



The core of the climate disclosure lies in the value of corporate climate change-related information, which helps society and firms to recognize the impact of business decisions in the context of climate change. It is noted that climate disclosure is categorized under Environmental Information Disclosure, which consists of one of the three important pillars of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) reporting. 



There is no universally agreed definition of “corporate climate change-related information”, but it generally includes details of some or all of the following: 



The strategy, governance practices and policies implemented by companies to mitigate, adapt to and manage climate change impacts such as extreme weather events, resource shortages and changing market conditions;Resource consumption that affects climate change, including fossil fuels;Production of waste and pollutants that affect the climate including greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions;The principal risks and opportunities expected by the company as a result of climate change, for example, demand for new products, regulation related to climate and supply chain resilience.



To respond to investor demand for company disclosure on climate change risks, the US Security Exchange Commission (SEC) issued its Interpretive Guidance on climate disclosure (“the 2010 Climate Guidance”) in February 2010. This guidance does not create new legal requirements or modify existing ones. According to a survey that examines the state of such corporate reporting and associated letters on climate change, most US listed companies’ climate disclosures in their public company reports are very brief, provide little discussion of material issues, and a large number of companies fail to state anything about climate change in their annual filing with the SEC.&nbsp;



The Role of Climate Disclosure is Underestimated    



There are many reasons why the listed companies do not resonate well with the SEC Guidance. One missing incentive is that this Guidance is not a mandatory requirement for the listed companies to disclose climate change-related information. More importantly, most of the listed companies have underestimated the value of climate disclosure. 



This conception might change soon since a recently released study shows how public sentiment influences the market pricing of firms’ sustainability activities and therefore the future stock returns of portfolios that integrate ESG data.&nbsp; According to the data presented in the study, public sentiment about a company’s sustainability activities has significant implications for the company’s market valuation. In other words, the greater positive public sentiment about a company’s ESG programs, the more market values increased for the company and its sustainability initiatives. The study also mentions that investors will avoid investing with companies that have a negative public sentiment even if they have strong ESG performance.



The findings expressed in the study indicate that there are 3 crucial aspects to draw a link between a company’s sustainability activities and increase a company’s market value. First, it is not a waste of company resources to develop programs dedicated to the environment, society, and corporate governance. Secondly, companies need to disclose information about their sustainability to the public and proactively respond to given feedback. Last but not least, incorporating the public helps engage them with sustainability activities.



Nowadays, companies are not only expected to operate in a responsible manner, but are increasingly asked to demonstrate its impacts publicly, including employees, shareholders, banks and insurers, customers and local communities, as well as the general public. 



Unveiling the Climate Disclosure Standards



If a company wants to garner positive public sentiment, then where should they start? 



Regardless of company size, Environmental Information Disclosure is generally the entry point for a company to start communication with the public and monitor their sentiment about corporate impact on the environment. Among all the environmental information, climate change-related information has dominated the mainstream media and discussions in these years. What’s more, surveys show that many American expect negative effects and life changes due to climate change. &nbsp;Therefore, a company should re-examine the impact of its products and business in the context of climate change, and strategically increase transparency to the public.



For those companies who seek systematic guidance on climate disclosure, there are three types of voluntary climate disclosure standards available as options to guide companies on disclosing climate change-related information: 



The Climate Disclosure Standard Board Framework (CDSB framework)&nbsp;The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Recommendations (TCFD recommendations)The standard developed by The Sustainability Accounting Standard Board (SASB standard)&nbsp;



Three standards are interrelated to each other. The first two standards have shared similar reporting principles. Also, many reporting contents of the CDSB framework are in line with the TCFD recommendations. The SASB standard served as an implementation tool for the TCFD recommendations. It is noted that the CDSB framework can be applicable to all industries, while the SASB standard would require some industries to submit supplemental disclosures to be consistent with the TCFD recommendations. 



It is worth mentioning that climate disclosure is not something exclusive for listed companies. Some private companies have also adopted the above standards as guidance to examine their supply-chains and business operations in the context of climate change, particularly to understand GHG emission hotspots. All three standards include carbon emissions as a part of required disclosure information. The CDSB framework offers a very flexible way for companies to choose the scope of carbon emissions disclosure, as long as the organization “takes into consideration a transition to a lower carbon economy consistent with a 2°C or lower scenario” and reflect such considerations in their internal policies. On the contrary, the SASB standard gives very clear disclosure indications regarding Scope 1 and 2 emissions, while Scope 3 is not included in the requirement. Instead, the SASB standard has a seperate supply-chain management section to fill the gap. 



Conclusion



Thanks to the explosive development of social media platforms, the communication between companies and the public is no longer a one-way street. Companies who do not take the initiative to disclose information or engage a conversation on issues that the public cares about, would likely lose their opportunity to obtain more market share. Multinational companies should realize that traditional environmental information disclosures are inadequate if the full spectrum of climate change-related information is incomplete from their corporate initiatives and ESG disclosure. Meanwhile, considering the fact that it does take effort for a company to compile and disclose such information, a comprehensive GHG emission report under the climate disclosure is the ideal starting point for medium and small-sized companies. 



If you have any questions on climate disclosure standards or GHG emission reporting, please feel free to contact us here.&nbsp;
By Shannon Mora
At some point today, you were probably daydreaming about what you will eat for dinner tonight. Imagine the savory smells dancing through the kitchen and meeting your nose. Picture the sound of your favorite food sizzling on the stove top. If you weren’t salivating before, I bet you are now! But, I will also bet that this innocent day-dream did not evoke a deep consideration about the farms your food comes from. In a society where food brings people together, it is surprising that there is a lack of understanding about where our food comes from. And more importantly, how we can improve our choices.
Let’s “break bread” with the reality about our food.

Misconceptions About Overall Agricultural Emissions
As children, we’ve all heard the mantra “eat your meat and vegetables to grow big and strong!”. But never, “eat sustainably, so that everyone can grow healthy and strong.” Whether you are a die hard meat lover or a ‘level 5 vegan’, your favorite dinner plate originated from a farm. So despite our food choices, we all contribute to climate change. In the book called The Sustainability Secret: Rethinking Our Diet to Transform the World, the authors found that the agricultural sector is actually responsible for 51% of all global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. If this number is surprising to you, you are not alone.
Several studies cite agricultural emissions ranging from 18% to as low as 10% because key data points are often excluded or otherwise lumped into other separate categories. For example, transportation of agricultural commodities accounts for 11% of all food emissions. However, this number is usually blocked together with the transport sector, as opposed to agricultural emissions as a whole. Other datasets commonly neglect to factor in other processes such as manure management, electricity use, synthetic fertilizers, crop residue burning, enteric fermentation, clear cutting rainforest lands for grazing, and much more.
&nbsp;
Not All Greenhouse Gases Are Equal
Another common misconception is that “all emissions are equal”, which is why most sustainability campaigns focus on energy usage. In an effort to fight climate change, folks generally put more emphasis on activities such as carpooling, recycling, and conserving electricity to combat CO2 emissions. However, little is spoken about the levels of nitrous oxide (N2O) or how to combat those emissions. Why is this factor important for calculating true food emissions? 65% of all anthropogenic N2O, a GHG that is 296 times worse for the atmosphere than CO2, is directly caused by agricultural practices, mainly from cattle manure.
Source: Center for Sustainable Systems, University of Michigan

Lowering Your Carbon Footprint
150 people are born every minute. Our growing population adds a considerable number of mouths to feed, on a planet that already holds 7.5 billion people. One easy and powerful decision we can all make as individuals to decrease our carbon footprint is to switch to a low carbon diet.
This does not mean sacrificing your favorite meal! It does mean we can make more educated choices when deciding what we want to eat and how much of it to purchase and consume regularly. By replacing all beef consumption with chicken for one year, your can reduce your carbon footprint by 882 lbs of CO2e. That’s equivalent to driving for 981 miles straight!
Making small choices to substitute carbon intensive foods will significantly lower your carbon footprint and thus, the global agricultural emissions.

Eliminating Your Carbon Footprint
In order to bring our emissions down to zero and call ourselves 100% sustainable eaters, we would somehow have to stop eating, become photosynthetic, and use the sunlight as fuel. Until science finds a way to make that happen for us, Carbon Credit Capital is dedicated to providing a real world, real time solution that anyone can participate in. Our solution is carbon credits.
Carbon credits allow a consumer to offset, or cancel out, all emissions (including N2O) associated with any product or service. Purchasing credits funds environmental projects around the world that are destroying, sequestering, or avoiding emissions that would have otherwise entered the atmosphere. Offsetting projects include the implementation of renewable energy farms, planting trees to restore carbon sinks, and much more. Carbon Credit Capital hand selects the projects they support based on their quality, the co-benefits for their surrounding communities, and only those that meet the strict requirements of vetted certification bodies.
We can’t stop eating, but we can start eating better.
&nbsp;
Editor Note: CO2e&nbsp;is short for “Carbon dioxide equivalent”. It is a term for describing different greenhouse gases in a common unit. For any quantity and type of greenhouse gas, CO2e signifies the amount of CO2 which would have the equivalent global warming impact.
Ready For Your Thanksgiving Feast? We are excited about the delicious food and the moment that we can get together with family and friends, while we also wonder about the feast&#8217;s environmental impact. Therefore, we have analyzed the traditional Thanksgiving dinner menu and here is each dish&#8217;s carbon emissions.

1 Roasted Turkey and Stuffing: 10.9 kg CO2e
Mashed Potatoes: 101 g CO2e
Dinner Rolls: 42 g CO2e
Tomato Soup: 54 g CO2e
Green Bean Casserole: 78 g CO2e
Beans: 54 g CO2e
Pot Roast: 8.19 kg CO2e
3 Corn on the Cob: 1.24 kg CO2e
1 Glass of Apple Juice: 1.08 g CO2e
1 Bottle of Red/White Wine: 1.04 kg CO2e
Cookies: 153 g CO2e
1 Slice of Cake: 155 g CO2e
1 Print of Ice Cream: 0.91 kg CO2e
1 Cup of Coffee: 71 g CO2e

Total: about 23 kg CO2e, which equals 56.4 miles driven by an average passenger vehicle, or 25.2 pounds of coal burned.
As you celebrate the holiday with love ones, eliminate your carbon emissions to show love for Mother Nature.
&nbsp;
Note: CO2e is short for “Carbon dioxide equivalent”.  It is a term for describing different greenhouse gases in a common unit. For any quantity and type of greenhouse gas, CO2e signifies the amount of CO2 which would have the equivalent global warming impact.
&nbsp;
By Alyssa Bueno
A champion of far-right policies and dubbed ‘Trump of the Tropics’, congressman Jair Bolsonaro is elected President of Brazil. He pledges to expand soy production and cattle grazing at the expense of rainforest biodiversity.

Bolsonaro states, “There won’t be a square centimeter demarcated as an indigenous reserve”. 
In the wake of Bolsonaro’s win, I felt compelled to dispute common misconceptions about forestry-related carbon offset projects, stop in-house fighting among climate activists, and get real about what our options are.
Economists commonly favor carbon pricing as the most effective way to combat climate change. Carbon pricing policies charge polluters a fee to account for the negative externalities that arise from emitting carbon.The generated revenue is funneled into purchasing carbon credits that sponsor environmental projects. The precise definition of carbon credits are:
A mechanism that companies and individuals can purchase to nullify or offset their carbon footprint by supporting projects that mitigate, capture, sequester, or avoid CO2 from entering the atmosphere. 1 carbon credit is equivalent to 1 metric ton of CO2e.
So what does this have to do with indigenous lands? Here are 3 ways carbon credits protect native lands.
&nbsp;
1. Carbon offset projects prevent exploitation of native lands
Using native lands to generate revenue from sequestered CO2 prevents other interests from exploiting their resources. By registering their lands to create forest-based offset projects, natives can protect their trees from being logged by for-profit companies. Offset revenue adds an extra layer of market-based incentives to guarantee the preservation of natural resources, the minimum time frame being around 100 years.
Sources: OpenStreetMap, Mapzen, Paul Duginski/ @latimesgraphics
Unfortunately, native american lands in the US have been historically stolen and exploited. The Yurok tribe’s ancestral lands in California have been colonized, seized by the federal government, then divvied up among governmental agencies for a myriad of state and federal projects.
Hydrodamming and upstream agriculture have decimated the once thriving salmon populations, and as a result of severe loss of biodiversity and way of life, native people across the country live below the poverty line, suffer from addiction, and face high rates of suicide.
Instead of going the legal route, and potentially losing an expensive case, the Yurok tribe was advised to buy their land back. To date, they’ve bought back 60,000 acres of land through California’s carbon market.
&nbsp;
2. Generating carbon credits from natives’ untapped resources promotes sustainable economic development
Carbon credits are providing natives with revenue that they would not have otherwise gained. For the Yurok tribe, this money is their main source of discretionary income and is being used to buy back land from the state. Revenues can also be funneled back into the welfare of the tribe.
Reforesting lands through afforestation and agroforestry will further stimulate the economy because increased biodiversity and wildlife will garner ecotourism opportunities. Some tribes offer tours that showcase their cultural and historic sites. This activity illuminates outsiders of the importance of land stewardship while supplying jobs and generating dollars for natives.
&nbsp;
3. Safeguarding the land enables tribes to preserve their cultural heritage
Carbon offset projects allow tribes to access forest resources for subsistence and cultural needs, such as
Sources: Global Carbon Pricing Initiatives,World Bank Carbon Pricing Dashboard
constructing totems and canoes. At the heart of Native American culture is stewardship and environmental ethics. Actively empowering these historically disenfranchised groups to manage their resources and prevent exploitation will ensure that this work will be passed down to future generations.
The majority of carbon offset projects occur in the developing world. The Amazon is a hotspot for agroforestry-related projects because trees south of the equator sequester more CO2 than in temperate deciduous forests. There are immense co-benefits including promoting peace, improving education, and reducing income inequality (all of which are defined as UN Sustainable Development Goals). Carbon pricing schemes are expanding across the globe, which means greater opportunities for private, nonprofit, and governmental sectors to help mitigate climate change in a way that also promotes financial gain.
Every carbon credit you purchase will directly help emissions reduction projects. For more info on the projects we support, click here.
Since the United States’ withdrawal from the Paris Agreement, the leading subject matter of “green” conferences alike have been focused on, “what now?” Climate Week NYC 2018 stayed true to this theme, gathering together government officials, financial and climate experts, and professionals of all fields to discuss not only “what now,” but more importantly, “how.”

The key takeaway from the events we had the privilege to attend was this: markets are the solution. Time and time again politicians have lacked the capability to react to these pressing issues in a timely or effective matter. Therefore, market mechanisms will be imperative tools if we hope to drive true behavioral change. While Simon Zadek, Co-Director of the UNEP Inquiry into the Design of a Sustainable Financial System, stressed to us that it would be a mistake to dismiss the crucial role administrative authority plays in setting “the rules to the game,” there is strong consensus that the private sector is still the key.
We are convinced that honest business collaboration and conscious decision-making will be what guides us towards achieving a sub-1.5, or sub-2.0 Celsius future.
Our team of Research Analysts, Alyssa Bueno and Shannon Mora, attended a total of 10 events with over 20 panels for this year’s Climate Week. Here is a recap of their highlights:
What did you think were the highlights of this year’s Climate Week NYC?
Alyssa: Climate week brought together professionals from various industries to discuss improving business sustainability. It was inspiring to be part of so many people with different areas of expertise all coming together to weigh in on pressing environmental topics.
Shannon: The attendance for this year’s Climate Change was outstanding. Many events had to arrange larger venues in order to host the overwhelming audiences eager to learn, engage, and network with like minded individuals. It was a true testament of the changing tides in social and business opinion around climate change.
What event impressed you the most during Climate Week NYC and Why?
Alyssa: I was most impressed by the Business Call to Action Forum because it truly showcased such a diversity of entrepreneurs who started their mission-based companies from the bottom up. Among the list of panelists were several impact investors, who talked about the direct positive change they influenced on such a large scale by funding and providing expertise for nascent enterprises. One of the investors from Acumen, an impact investing firm, assists companies throughout the developing world who are working toward creating positive change, while keeping in mind environmental ethics. Very basic human needs such as cooking and light are unmet in remote, rural areas yet are easily remedied through the use of biofuels and solar energy.
Shannon: The Moody’s Briefing was an eye-opening conversation on environmental investment. Speaker Justine Leigh-Bell, the Director of Market Development at Climate Bonds Initiative, took an honest approach when responding to the criticism against green bonds and the rate at which they are gaining popularity. Justine accurately pointed out that, “we are late to the game” with utilizing green bonds and therefore, are enduring a learning curve. Not enough research in the past has been placed into identifying an accurate ranking system for the projects that qualify as green bonds. Additionally, the industry continues to struggle with awarding appropriate importance to the metrics of the environmental impact of said projects versus the narrative it tells, and vice versa. Ultimately, despite the setbacks green bonds have faced, they are beginning to prove to be a lucrative avenue for investors to explore and deserve a greater amount of our attention now and in the near future.
&nbsp;

&nbsp;
How is CCC relevant to Climate Week NYC?
Alyssa: CCC—being a key player in offsetting businesses’ unavoidable emissions—provides a good opportunity to reduce their footprints with minimal effort. Businesses can aspire to be completely carbon free, contribute to humanitarian causes, and satisfy consumer demands for environmentally-conscious products all in one package when they work with us. Economists favor carbon pricing as the best approach to reducing emissions because vague policies and market incentives are not enough to meet SDGs, much less a sub-2-degree warming scenario. CCC helps companies actually move the dial.
Shannon: The central theme of the events we attended surrounded this idea that voluntary participation in the climate movement will be a key driving force. As a leader in voluntary offset markets, CCC will prove to be a true catalyst in equipping businesses with the expertise and tools they require to fulfill their role as activists. One example may be the increased used of carbon credits as a means to meet the requirements of emission trading systems.
Are there any topics that you would want added to Climate Week next year?
Alyssa: I would like to see a greater focus on reducing waste from the retail sector. It was inspiring to see businesses working toward increasing their renewable energy use and contributing to charitable causes; however there was not as much emphasis on environmental packaging. Our oceans and landfills are filled with plastics and other materials that take hundreds of years to biodegrade. Even recyclables are more often than not tossed in the garbage instead of properly recycled.
Shannon: It would be wonderful for CCC to be able to host an event to exhibit the strong role carbon credits serve in this call to action for the private sector. Carbon Credits are applicable to any industry and produce lasting effects not only on the global environment, but also for the communities in which the projects operate. We are expanding our repertoire of clients every day, and it would be, I feel, a very informative event to be able to showcase what a broad array of products and services we are capable of offsetting and turning carbon neutral.
As Ndidi Nwuneli, an impact investment entrepreneur, reminded us at the Business Call to Action Event, there is an ancient African proverb that reads: “If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together.”
We can’t wait for next year’s Climate Week and are looking forward to hearing about the great strides businesses have made to mitigate climate change together.
&nbsp;
Carbon Credit Capital was recently a part of more than 75 owners, employees, and friends of Benefit Corporations (“B Corps”), who showed up on October 11th, 2018 to officially launch the B Local NYC Chapter at the Athleta store in Flatiron.

B Local communities are groups of Certified B Corporations in a specific geography that are run by a local volunteer committee comprised of B Corp employees. The B Local Committee is, in effect, the steward of their local B Corp community, shepherding its overall health, growth, and positive impact. There are 20+ B Local Chapters throughout the world and we’re excited for NYC to finally have one! Not only is B Local NYC the newest chapter, it’s also one of the biggest with over 130 B Corps headquartered in the five boroughs.

Carbon Credit Capital’s Director of Business Development, Reed Shapiro, serves on the board of B Local NYC as both a founding board member and Partnerships Chair.
At the launch party, Reed stressed that, “We have a very exciting opportunity on our hands. We are already, on day zero, one of the biggest local hubs of B Corps in the world. Our goal is to have this chapter be well networked enough to create collaboration and partnerships between local B-Corps, and ultimately have this integrated bottom line, micro-economy act as a model for sustainable growth that New York (and other cities) can follow and learn from in big ways.”

We have been a B Corp since 2015, and strive to advocate for and educate fellow B Corps on climate change mitigation strategies and pathways to a low-carbon economy. You can visit https://www.blocalnyc.com/ for more updates from the NYC B Corp community, and bcorporation.net to learn more about what it means to be a B Corp.
By Pianpian Wang
In less than two weeks, the China National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) and Shenzhen People’s Government, will host the 6th Shenzhen International Low Carbon City Forum together with the National Low Carbon Technology Exhibition (the “Green Expo”). The Forum and Expo will be held in the city of Shenzhen, China from September 17th to 19th, 2018.

According to the event organizers, about 5,000 distinguished guests from 40 countries around the world, including governmental officials, well-known experts, and famous entrepreneurs will discuss frontier topics of climate change mitigation, share intellectual achievements, and develop practical cooperation during the 2-day event.
The Establishment of the Low Carbon City Forum
On May 3, 2012, Chinese Prime Minister Li Keqiang and European Commission President José Manuel Barroso signed the Joint Declaration on The EU-China Partnership on Urbanization. The Shenzhen International Low Carbon City was pitched to the Sino-Dutch(EU) sustainable urbanization cooperation as a flagship project. The Low Carbon City has been focusing on the following aspects: climate-friendly city construction, low-carbon industry development, low-carbon lifestyle promotion and international cooperation.
On June 17th, 2013, the first Shenzhen International Low carbon City Forum was launched as an important element of China’s first National Low Carbon Day. Over the past four editions, the Forum has played a leading role in the field of low carbon development at the domestic and international level, attracting important stakeholders from all around the world, including renowned speakers like former Vice President of the United States Al Gore.
This year’s Low Carbon City Forum will cover heated topics in the context of climate change such as green finance, cities’ sustainable development, south-south cooperation on low carbon development, green buildings, and businesses’ green operations. These topics could indicate where China is focusing its attention in particular, and important moves they might be considering.
&nbsp;
The Indicators of A Low Carbon City
Currently, cities are exploring indicators and ways to evaluate which actions will help them proceed towards the goal of being low-carbon and carbon-neutral. Since there is no standard framework for cities to follow on this subject, it encourages and prompts cities to be innovative and develop customized initiatives for their own needs. There are, however, some common aspects to consider everywhere:
Energy Sources
With the growth of urban population, the electricity demand will continually go up. To ensure low-carbon energy growth, we have to adopt much cleaner means of energy generation. Renewable energy is currently replacing fossil fuels, leading this transition.
In order to achieve these goals, a city‘s electricity grid has to be upgraded and transformed to create room for further development and inclusion of renewable energy.
Buildings
According to C40 Cities (a network of cities pushing climate action), houses, offices, and other buildings account for more than half of all planet-warming gasses emitted in urban areas. In C40 Cities’ latest commitment, 19 mayors, from London to Tokyo, said they would put in place regulations requiring all new buildings to be carbon neutral by 2030 and all existing ones to reach the same goal by 2050. When Shenzhen’s carbon trading program was in its pilot phase, 197 public buildings were covered under the program. While China’s current National Carbon Trading Program has not included the building sector yet, the earlier pilot program shows the potential for going in this direction.
Urban Vegetation
Urban trees improve air and water quality, reduce energy costs, improve human health, and offer the benefit of storing carbon. Shenzhen knows the benefits of trees well, and does not sacrifice green space during its rapid urban development. The city was granted the title of international “Garden City” in 2000 and the city government has developed strategies to refine urban parks for people’s leisure and urban ecosystem. As of 2013, 45% of the city’s public space is green and vegetative. Besides parks and gardens, cities can also promote urban agriculture. Cities like Chicago, New York and Seattle have consistently updated the zoning codes and removed hurdles for urban farming.
Advocate for Low-Carbon Lifestyles and Purchase Carbon Offsets
Last but not least, people, city residents, have the most power to help the cities achieve low-carbon economies. There are many ways to live a lower carbon lifestyle, and every one of them has a real impact on tackling climate change, and even saving you money. Individuals can reduce carbon footprints in key consumption areas, such as food (less meat consumption and more local purchasing), waste (reduce waste and better waste sorting), and mobility (use public transportation instead of private cars). Shenzhen, for example, is the first city in the world electrifies 100% of its public buses—16,359, to be exact.
Furthermore, since 2011, Shenzhen’s city government has added personal offset services to its carbon trading platform, and encourages individuals to buy carbon offsets and reduce their carbon emissions.
Shenzhen is a young city, established in 1979 under the Open and Reform policy. Shenzhen has successfully transformed from a small fishing village to an international garden city that is home to big corporations such as BYD, Huawei and Tencent, as well as one of the former pilot carbon trading systems across China. Shenzhen’s story indicates that the path towards sustainability and low-carbon urban development is feasible and expectable.
More details about the event will be in the next blog post.
&nbsp;
Last Thursday, a few members of Carbon Credit Capital (&#8220;CCC&#8221;)&#8217;s team were able to skip out a little early and board a speedy touring yacht headed for Rockaway Beach. The occasion, Yoga Yacht, started by Daisy Yoga’s founder, Lauren Coles, and Emily Griesing, was a night filled with mingling, yoga and fun on the beach, and a little cocktail party sponsored by Naked Turtle Rum (who ensure the protection of turtles with every bottle) on the way home.

It was also carbon neutral.
CCC partnered with Yoga Yacht to calculate and offset the emissions from chartering the boat, and its use of resources in operation for the night. The wellness retreat is focused on creating a connection between land, sea, yourself and others. Yoga Yacht has also ensured the sponsors, products, and takeaways from the experience match this ethos of wellness, connection, and giving back. Some of the other sponsors include GT Kombucha, Harmless Harvest coconut water, WTRMLN WTR (a watermelon drink), Naked Turtle Rum, 100 for All, Global Food Solutions, Unify, and Up Mountain Swizzle sparkling switchel.
Along with the environmental impact mitigation CCC provides, the mix of companies orchestrating the evening covered the fair treatment and pay for at-risk value chain stakeholders (poor coconut farmers), organic certification, wildlife conservation, digestion health, and the provision of safe drinking water to those without it on massive scales.
There was also a raffle held for attendees for gifts, apparel and experiences donated by a number of B-Corporations and other purpose-driven companies.
Yoga Yacht just goes to show that great getaways, filled with lux atmospheres, and intimate private experiences, can be truly positive for all stakeholders involved (the people on the boat, the companies putting the event together, the employees at those companies, the customers who consume those products, the environment itself), without compromise. Life is not a zero-sum game—the more events that happen around the world like Yoga Yacht, the more we will be able to realize this abundance everywhere!
We look forward to helping make future Yoga Yachts carbon neutral for years to come.
With the addition of their PowerFusion™ products, Only Natural Pet now offers 45 products with net-zero climate impact. This spring, we teamed up with our partners at Only Natural Pet to calculate emissions from seven new dry food products. However, as of this month, all seven products are officially carbon neutral for the first quarter of 2018. The PowerFusion™ products include Wild Feast, Red Meat Feast, Poultry Feast, and Small Breed Feast. Carbon Neutral PowerFusion™ can now be purchased at a PetSmart near you.


Robust Calculations Reflect Improved Supply Chain Efficiency at Only Natural Pet
CCC measures the greenhouse gas emissions of PowerFusion™ from raw materials, to processing, manufacture, packaging, and warehousing. The price of each bag reflects the cost to mitigate every gram of greenhouse gas associated with its&#8217; purchase. Needless to say, we study Natural Pet&#8217;s supply chain very closely and carefully. Recently ONP made great progress towards making their supply chain greener and more efficient. The distance between manufacture and warehousing is now almost 1,000 miles shorter, avoiding thousands of pounds of GHG every year. As the company grows, this will deliver material carbon savings and will reduce the amount of GHG they will have to offset.
&nbsp;
Every Purchase of PowerFusion™ Delivers Positive Impact Around The World
Only Natural Pet is still supporting the ADPML carbon offset project in Pará, Brazil to offset their products. ADPML helps protect native farmers in areas where cattle ranching destroys millions of acres of virgin forest a year. ADPML employs locals to tend the land, and educated in how to diversify crops and improve resiliency. The project also affords more efficient, safer means of energy in the form of clean cook stoves, and a trust to ensure empowering sustainable development. Know that feeding your pooch or kitty PowerFusion™ doesn&#8217;t just contribute to your pet&#8217;s health, but also the health of the world.
&nbsp;
About Only Natural Pet
Only Natural Pet (ONP) is a nationally distributed pet food manufacturer, operating in the United States and Canada. ONP provides a wide variety of thoughtfully and carefully produced pet food and accessory options for both cats and dogs. With an inherent focus on pet health, and corporate and product sustainability, Only Natural Pet has emerged as a clear leader in the pet food industry in both categories. Ingredient transparency, commitment to working with you to foster healthy pets, and a host of sustainability initiatives (including Carbon Neutral Checkout©) make this dedication obviously apparent and make Only Natural Pet equally a bourgeoning force for good in an industry often muddied by lack of information and lack of best practices.
Reed Shapiro
A few weeks ago Carbon Credit Capital (&#8220;CCC&#8221;) partnered with the Earth Day Initiative to help them mitigate and spread awareness about the environmental impacts of their event—namely, the greenhouse gas impacts.

While Earth Day Union Square has, in the past, been beautiful, April 15th, 2018 in New York City was not. It was cold, windy, and rainy. Nevertheless, the event was surprisingly well attended. All vendors showed up to brave the elements, and throngs of people, whether just there in passing, or because they knew of the event, meandered around Union Square North throughout the day.
For the most part, those brave enough to stop and stand in the 39-degree weather were very interested to learn about what carbon credits are. There were of course, as always, those who cried bull****, however, this was a minority position. For most in attendance were, after learning what a carbon credit was, happy to know the environmental instrument exists. Some attendees even offset their attendance plus the equivalent of the attendance of dozens of others.
All together, we were able to offset over 27 metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent. A majority of the credits purchased came from a friend and business partner to CCC, Residential Home Funding’s very own George Pakenham, who I worked with to develop our Carbon Neutral Mortgage product and partnership, and who has been collaborating with myself and John Oppermann, the Executive Director of the Earth Day Initiative to potentially bring the product to New York City. George offset 20 of the 27 tonnes from the day. Attendees accounted for another 3 metric tonnes.
Finally, last but not least, we had a handful of brands and co-exhibitors who decided to offset their booths for the day, making them Carbon Neutral Exhibitors for the event. As is tradition, we’d like to highlight the companies who offset with us at Earth Day Union Square. These companies are great in their own right, however, their commitment to offsetting their emissions showcases their seriousness about being a better brand. We highlight them here to show that when you take action as an individual, or as a business, it does not go unnoticed.
&nbsp;
ZICO
No stranger to the public eye, Zico was one of few large corporate sponsors at the EDI event. While sustainability is not particularly present in their online and brand persona, Zico does work with and support hundreds of small-share farmers around the world, and provides a product that keeps its consumers healthy and well nourished. Zico’s local brand manager, Sebastian Palacios, however, saw value in becoming a carbon neutral exhibitor right away. Similar to the other exhibitors listed below, Zico purchased one tonne of emissions reductions (one carbon credit) to offset the emissions associated with producing and packaging the product, shipping it to New York, and the waste streams created at the event. We are proud to have helped Zico make a green move (however small it may be), and are pleased to see that even some of the large corporate companies have the managerial agility to sign on to efforts like this at the moment.
HONEST TEA COMPANY
Right next to Zico was Honest Tea. Similarly to Sebastian, local brand manager Rosalie Troianello was more than happy to make Honest Tea one of the four carbon neutral exhibitors of the day. Honest Tea does have a fairly robust sustainable mission, and their supply chain and corporate ethos are well versed in both providing a great product, and also doing so in a socially and environmentally responsible manner. Honest Tea’s source map is a great example of supply chain transparency, and would lend itself to our Carbon Neutral Checkout® model that would allow Honest Tea to track, and then mitigate the carbon emissions, not just from their attendance at events like Earth Day Union Square, but for every bottle of tea they sell every day. Who knows, maybe one day we’ll see this as reality!
ECO-BAGS Products
We have a lot of love for ECO BAGS. Both ECO BAGS and CCC are NYC-based, both Certified B-Corporations. ECO BAGS founder Sharon Rowe has been in this space since the late ‘80’s and provides New Yorkers and people all around the world with a simple product that makes a world of difference. Using a reusable bag is one simple step anyone can take to make a positive change in their lives from both a greenhouse gas standpoint, as well as from a plastic pollution perspective. Many people don’t know that plastics are typically made from oil and that the millions of pounds of plastic pollution we create every year is essentially a large oil spill—it’s just translucent and crinkly, as opposed to black and sticky. ECO BAGS has been changing that story, one reusable bag at a time, since well before it was a big trend. It was thus no surprise that Sharon offsets her exhibit in a heartbeat. If I remember correctly her rationale was something along the lines of, “Duh, done.”
INNISFREE
Last, but certainly not least comes Innisfree. A subsidiary of Amore Pacific, Innisfree is a Korean beauty products manufacturer. They have a fairly robust Green Promise that covers a range of activities and commitments, from recycling, to sourcing mostly naturally-derived ingredients for product inputs, and a commitment to giving back to local communities. Their VP, Julien Bouzitat, much like the heads of the three other booths who offset their attendance, was delighted at the opportunity to mitigate the emissions from their booth (which was a well-staffed, extensive set up) and thought it was a no-brainer.
&nbsp;
All told, what started out as a fairly dreary day, turned out to be one full of dedicated business owners and managers coming together to spread awareness to the great products and services they provide. Weather aside, it was great to get the opportunity to meet and work with everyone on a deeper level. We hope to keep in touch with these brands moving forward, and that in the not-too-distant future you’ll be able to purchase a carbon neutral bottle of tea or coconut water, a reusable tote bag, or a pallet of makeup from these vendors who may just be starting down their roads towards carbon neutrality.
Carbon Credit Capital welcomes Nashville-based social impact technology company Hytch, LLC to our family of brands offering carbon neutral products and services.

Hytch Rewards: Financial Incentives to Ride-Share, Alleviate Traffic Congestion, Improve Air Quality, Build Community in Urban Areas.
In early February 2018, Hytch, LLC launched an application for iPhone and Android called Hytch Rewards. The app tracks, validates and rewards shared miles each time two or more people track their ride. Users are rewarded for all forms of ridesharing, including carpooling, ride-hail services, or even public transit like the bus or train.
Hytch has already rewarded over 750,000 Vehicle Miles Not Driven (VMND). That&#8217;s equivalent to saving 14,900 trees, or avoiding 220 tonnes of CO2 emissions from vehicle use throughout Tennessee.
&nbsp;
A Great Service, Verifiably Differentiated
Hytch rides are inherently carbon neutral. Each time at least two people share a ride, the miles not driven by the passenger offset the miles driven by the driver. Hytch Rewards&#8217; methodology suggests that when three or more individuals track their shared miles, the ride is carbon negative. Miles not driven by three passengers individually avoid more CO2 than the single trip of three passengers emits.
Despite this impact however, Hytch has chosen to go one step beyond incentivizing and tracking neutral rides by partnering with Carbon Credit Capital to voluntarily offset the direct emissions from miles that are actually driven. The nature of our partnership yields itself to Carbon Neutral Checkout® beautifully.
Now, every carpool, bus, and train ride tracked through Hytch Rewards will be undeniably carbon neutral, and arguably carbon negative. The company has preemptively offset the first 2 million miles driven and/or ridden on the app. Hytch will continue to offset unavoidable emissions driven on their network as it grows, in intervals of 1 million miles.
Hytch, LLC has chosen a wind power project to offset vehicle miles through our partners in India, Infinite Solutions. The project in Jaibhim is Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) verified and advances 5 separate UN Sustainable Development Goals, including:
No Poverty (1), Good Health &amp; Well-Being (3), Affordable &amp; Clean Energy (7), Decent Work &amp; Economic Growth (8), and Industry Innovation &amp; Infrastructure (9)
The project delivers zero emissions renewable electricity to India’s national grid. The wind power project consists of 16 turbines, each with a capacity of 2100 kW. The project improves air quality in local communities by avoiding solid waste normally associated with coal-fired power plants.
&nbsp;
Get Ready for Carbon Neutral Ride-Sharing &amp; Better Rewards Nationwide
The Hytch Rewards app is currently available nationwide as a means for tracking shared miles, and visualizing environmental impact from shared transit decisions. Additional cash rewards are currently available in Tennessee, with concentrated incentives in the greater Nashville region as part of the Hytch urban pilot program. Rewards will be made available in other major metropolitan areas as new sponsors sign on to bring cash rewards to more people nationwide. To learn more about the Hytch Rewards app and partnership opportunities, visit HytchRewards.com.
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
Back in July of this year, Carbon Credit Capital was featured on the show The Emerald Planet, in Washington D.C.

Reed Shapiro, Carbon Credit Capital (&#8220;CCC&#8221;)&#8217;s Director of Business Development, was interviewed by Dr. Sam Hancock of The Emerald Planet. Reed talked about carbon credits, carbon markets and our innovative Carbon Neutral Checkout® program at the show! Check out the recorded video to watch the interview!
&nbsp;

&nbsp;
&nbsp;
About The Emerald Planet
The EmeraldPlanet International Foundation (the EmeraldPlanet) is a not-for-profit 501(c)(3) organization with its headquarters and television production studios in Washington, D.C. USA. Created in 1973, the EmeraldPlanet’s activities include the identification of 1,000 best practices as these pertain to: environment quality; severe climate change; protection and enhancement of land, air, and water quality; identification of innovative, sustainable, and resilient ‘green’ technologies, services, products, and processes; promotion of renewable energy sources; among other efforts to foster the nexus of economic, environmental, and community development.
&nbsp;
Carbon Credit Capital LLC (“CCC”) joined 1% for the Planet in late November, committing to donate 1% of annual sales to support nonprofit organizations focused on the environment. We joined 1% for the Planet because this initiative is in line with our mission and internal corporate policy to reduce negative environmental impacts, and support positive environmental action.

Since its establishment, CCC has been committed to effectively helping corporations, universities, non-profits, and individuals reduce their carbon footprints, meet sustainability goals, and develop sustainability projects that support local communities. To achieve this mission, CCC has developed innovative programs such as our Carbon Neutral Checkout® program to help the business sector engage in carbon emissions reduction efforts at little or no direct cost. Furthermore, at the Corporate level, CCC actively seeks opportunities to partner with and support organizations that have mandates which complement our identified focus areas, including but not limited to establishing partnerships, providing free consulting help, and charitable donations. On behalf of CCC, Olivia Fussell, President of the Company has consistently donated to several environmental organizations, including Carey Institute of Ecosystem Studies, Central Park Conservancy, and Climate Central.
Through the 1% for the Planet membership, CCC firmly believes it can help systematically maximize our efforts and commitments to a new level of impact. As indicated by Kate Williams, the CEO of 1% for the Planet, “1% for the Planet connects dollars with doers to address the most pressing challenges, and we amplify those stories to create a larger impact on our planet. We are a powerful global model that generates new dollars and new engagement to support environmental nonprofits who are doing critical on the ground work.”
Reed Shapiro, CCC’s director of business development also believes, “Our partnership with 1% for the Planet has been great thus far. Kate and Carla have been such welcoming stewards of the movement, both in signing CCC up, but as well as in helping us strategize how we can use our resources and programs, and provide them to the broader 1% for the Planet community. As what seems to be the first carbon footprint management company in the community, we hope that the work we do can help others meet their goals in this space, all while highlighting our relationships with the Carey Institute, Central Park Conservancy, and Climate Central – all fantastic organizations that deserve due recognition for their own efforts. It’s just very exciting.”
&nbsp;
About Carbon Credit Capital LLC.
Carbon Credit Capital LLC is a carbon offset management firm. We specialize in linking international and local partners to high-quality carbon emission reduction projects in developing and domestic markets. We work to reduce carbon emissions, provide climate education, and achieve sustainability goals with corporations, non-profits, small businesses, and universities.
About 1% for the Planet
1% for the Planet is a global organization that connects dollars and doers to address the most pressing issues facing our planet. We are a network of more than 1,200 member businesses, numerous individuals, and thousands of nonprofit partners in more than 40 countries. Started in 2002 by Yvon Chouinard, founder of Patagonia, and Craig Mathews, founder of Blue Ribbon Flies, our members have given more than $150 million to environmental nonprofits. For more information about 1% for the Planet, please visit www.onepercentfortheplanet.org or follow us on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn, and YouTube.
Carbon Credit Capital is proud to officially announce its latest Carbon Neutral Checkout® Partnership with Residential Home Funding Corp. of America.

Residential Home Funding (&#8220;RHF&#8221; ) and Carbon Credit Capital (&#8220;CCC&#8221;) have been in conversation since May of this year to develop and bring to market a mortgage product that mirrors its generic counterparts, save for one key difference. The Carbon Neutral Mortgage ensures that the fees borrowers typically pay to banks and underwriters upon closing their loans are instead put towards carbon offset projects to fully mitigate the projected carbon footprint of owning and operating the home, for the life of the loan.
&nbsp;
About the Carbon Neutral Mortgage
CCC developed a state-wide generic emissions factor per square-foot of a home, and by multiplying this calculation by the size of a home in square-feet, we can determine the estimated emissions from energy use over one year, and subsequently, the life of the loan. The Carbon Neutral Mortgage is currently available in New Jersey, and will likely expand in the coming months to select states nationwide. When borrowers close a Carbon Neutral Mortgage they receive acknowledgment, personalized certification, and will have a specified number of carbon offsets removed from circulation in the global carbon markets and “retired” in their name – meaning that they, and only they can ever get credit for reducing those emissions.
The mortgage itself will remain the same: same rate, same terms, same great service from Residential Home Funding. However, CCC and RHF are proud to guarantee a cost savings of at least $100 to any borrower who selects the Carbon Neutral Mortgage over a regular mortgage. We do this by using a mix of carbon credit projects at different price points to ensure borrowers will not see additional costs or a lesser product. Rather, by choosing to go green, borrowers will actually save money.
&nbsp;
The basic philosophy behind the deal?
CCC and RHF both think it is simply a better idea to have funds that would otherwise go to a bank or to administrative fees go towards constructive activities that have been rigorously and scientifically verified to benefit the world. Residential Home Funding is America’s 66th largest mortgage bank, and with thousands of mortgages and refinances closed every year. Each mortgage RHF closes amounts to an estimated 100-350 metric tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions. We expect this partnership to deliver thousands to tens of thousands of tonnes of emissions reductions every year.
Those looking to buy a home, or refinance their mortgages in the State of New Jersey should check out Residential Home Funding’s Carbon Neutral Mortgage landing page, which is now live, and ready to help you save some cash while also saving the world.
For the past 9 years in late September, while the UN General Assembly is in session, NYC Climate Week (organized by The Climate Group) has emerged as one of the key summits in the international climate series conferences. Climate Week has become one of the most crucial drivers of climate action with initiatives like RE100 and EV100, along with a host of other highly impactful programs designed to get more companies to take a stand in reducing their environmental impacts in a way that is in line with a 1.5-2.0 C future.

This year, Carbon Credit Capital was particularly active in attending Climate Week programming. The Management Team attended north of 10 events around the city. Here we throw some questions out regarding this year’s key takeaways.
&nbsp;
1. How many events did you attend during the Climate Week NYC?
Olivia Fussell, Carbon Credit Capital&#8217;s President &amp; Managing Director
3 events
Reed Shapiro, Director of Business Development
5-6 events attended and 4+ meetings
Pianpian Wang, Legal Advisor/Carbon Accounting Analyst
3 events
&nbsp;
2. What do you think of this year’s Climate Week NYC? Any highlights?
Olivia F.
Most impressed with the quality and the sheer organization and logistics involved in gathering such a large number of important participants from environmental ministers, to US city mayors, to experts and companies. 
Reed S.
There seems to be a mixed bag of very valuable information and, yet at the same time, a lot of events till haven’t cleared the hurdle of “how do we provide opportunities for all in attendance to enact these changes, or to proactively and practically use this knowledge?” Here’s a perfect example: at the International Conference on Sustainable Development (a very important topic – how do we ensure Least Developed Countries and Developing Countries don’t fall into the same industrial consumption and waste patterns the developed West has while still promising improvements to quality of life?) there were some great discussions about education, about women’s empowerment, about self empowerment in general. Very little in the programming about: how do you, the one person in the audience, contribute to what’s being said here? Sadly, ICSD featured those already in high places talking about the work they do. It’s inaccessible. It’s great that this work is happening, but I feel the event could have been more powerful if it was geared towards empowering those in the audience to follow suit. We need accessible information, that can be easily translated into action. With these lecture formats I worry that people might be left thinking, “I don’t need to do anything because IFC has a couple great initiatives.”
On the flip-side – the event on internal carbon pricing was highly informative, and immediately actionable. The content was built around how do you establish a scientific baseline and begin to put an economic incentive in place to reduce carbon emissions in your operations and supply chains – literally a rubric for how to make managerial economic decisions in business. Extremely practical There were, however, less than 20 people in that room. At ICSD there were probably close to 1,000. That seems backwards to me. There were probably 8-10 companies who walked away from that session with a great handbook to drive forward on carbon pricing &#8211; it should have been 80-100 &#8211; or 800 &#8211; 1,000, I’d like to see these types of events get more coverage, and be held in spaces that can accommodate a full audience in the future.
Other highlights, and things to which people should be paying attention are the Science Based Targets Initiative, and the NYC Alliance to get the City’s emissions down 80% by 2050 – a tall task, but something they are building coalitions locally and city-wide in order to make it a reality. There wasn’t much actionable takeaway from that event either, but at least they’re inviting the whole community (not just business and policy makers – citizens, the people who will be building this into their lives daily) and giving us a chance to contribute to the programming and the action. 
Pianpian W.
I have an impression that this year’s Climate Week stressed on how to use financial mechanisms to reduce carbon emissions. Recent year’s increasing emphasis on this subject is highly relevant to the formation and development of the Paris Agreement. The Article 6’s market mechanism approach really opens more possibilities for utilizing the financial and market instruments to tackle carbon mitigation, which is a great trend for the private sector’s engagement.
&nbsp;
Mr. Howard Bamsey , Executive Director of the Green Climate Fund, was giving a presentation at an event of Climate Week NYC 2017.
&nbsp;
3. What event impressed you the most during the Climate Week NYC? Why?
Olivia F.
How Mayors and Businesses are working together, which included the participation of the mayors of Santa Fe, Salt Lake City and Des Moines. Daniel Zarrili, the Senior Director of Climate Policy and Programs represented NYC. It was exciting that so much concrete action is happening that include private public partnerships in transport, renewable energy and community planning to improve education and smart decisions for the cities involved. 
Reed S.
The sheer number of people who are coming out for these events. This is truly the week to make connections and take action in the sustainability space. There are other great summits out there, but none as all encompassing as Climate Week; others will be on supply chain justice, or emissions, or material inputs, or efficiency, etc. Climate Week rolls it all into one (albeit, perhaps a little too jampacked) week long “conference.” The fact that you’re getting likely 10’s of thousands of people, students, professionals, regular residents of NYC, government officials, heads of State, business and thought leaders all in one place at one time for one purpose – that’s powerful. Now… if only we could make it a little more accessible so the wave created from this week every year is truly disruptive as opposed to simply hopeful and happily reflective.
Pianpian W.
All events I attended impressed me from different aspects. I would like to share some impressive take-aways here instead: firstly, I noticed more female attendees showed up than before. In one of the events I went to, roughly around 65% of audience are women. Relatively speaking, females generally show more concern for environmental issues, according to scientific surveys. Therefore, as a female professional in this field, I am glad that we turn this advantaged mindset into actual actions. Secondly, investors have generated more and more interest and requests on understanding a company’s environmental and social impact as well as risk, and carbon risk is one of the major indicators that investors are now looking for. Thirdly, pricing carbon emissions will be something that we can expect to happen within 3-4 years.
&nbsp;
4. How CCC is relevant to the Climate Week NYC in your opinions?
Olivia F.
As a company, we are out there working every day on innovative ways for companies, airports, cities and communities to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. We are making good headway as more and more entities recognize that taking action is the smart way to go. 
Reed S.
As relevant as any other company or topic can possibly be in my opinion. We had to check our egos a little bit with things like the fact that offsets cannot be considered in fulfilling SBTs (science based targets), but the fact remains: emissions have to be zero, or very close to it in less than 35 years – globally. Either way you cut this cake: offsets are going to be necessary. Gold Standard and CDP, as well as VCS (all players players who guide development in the offset space) are working hard to make offsets more tangible, more well rooted in physical value, and to realistically quantify financial, societal, and climate benefits through offset projects, with the goal of making them a more viable investment for business. The more we can help to drive this conversation, and show that offsets do in fact produce material financial benefits to companies, the more we will be especially relevant. 
Pianpian W.
CCC’s services are highly relevant to climate change and carbon mitigation. This year’s events cover most of CCC’s business focuses and provide opportunities for us to network and interact with other professionals in this field.
&nbsp;

&nbsp;
5. Any topics that you would want to be added to the Climate Week next year?
Olivia F.
It would be good to add a few sessions on the impact of flooding and extreme weather events, such as hurricanes as so many cities, communities and states are experiencing unprecedented negative impact affecting millions of people. 
Reed S.
I am hoping we can come to an agreement with Climate Group to begin calculating and offsetting the 140+ official Affiliate events that go on throughout the city. Climate Group offsets their programming. Great start, but they only have 5-10 events. That’s only 3-7% of the total where emissions are being recorded and managed. For a week long conference focused on reliable bench-marking, carbon pricing, selecting low carbon options, and actually doing something about it – it would be nice to see offsetting permeate throughout all programming.
Additionally, I’d love to see a much more targeted focus on ensuring that the content in every single event is created to show how those in attendance can take note and replicate the results. We cannot depend on policy, governments and business to do it all, they don’t touch our daily lives in the way we do. That sounds almost too simple, but it’s true, those other entities may have impacts on us day to day in terms of what we buy, but it’s up to us to determine how we consume our purchases and resources. So many people want to have a better impact. We need to show them exactly how it can work. There are more options out there to make a difference than people know how to engage with. Give us a toolkit of interchangeable initiatives, actions and best practices. Give people a robust wardrobe of these things so they can mix and match and figure out which will be best for them and best for the planet. It’s not rocket science, it’s just better planning and more targeted deliveries. One big point I would like to suggest to the “leaders” in this space (and I know it may not be logistically feasible, but one can dream) – it’s nice that there have been good ideas that have produced successful results. Great, but please, share it in a way where we can replicate that success, don’t charge $1,400 a ticket to even get eyes on it. How can we expect these conferences to be transformative, when only a handful of people can get access to a solution that could be wildly impactful? 
Pianpian W.
I would say that the Climate Week needs to have some events that truly engage with the small and medium-sized enterprises. Let them also make their voice and be part of the talk. Maybe CCC can hold an event dedicated for this group next year.
&nbsp;
As of last week, Carbon Credit Capital has added its name to the list of companies helping to advance “Fossil Free” investing with fellow B-Corp – Macroclimate.

Macroclimate is building on the momentum of Norway’s Sovereign Wealth Fund, Stanford University, and even the whole State of California who have kicked off a trend of institutional investors divesting from coal and other carbon intensive assets to the tune of over $5 trillion.
For a long time, while institutional investors had the resources to determine which fossil-free investments to make, they did not always do so (and some still don’t). Furthermore, this level of information was not available to the individual investor. Enter the publication of Fossil Free Funds, and Carbon Underground 200 (a comprehensive list of the most fossil intensive holdings, and companies owning the largest fossil fuel related assets), which allowed individual investors to gain insight to these questions for the first time ever. Following these publications, Macroclimate launched their digital advisory service with diversified institutional-grade fossil-free investments to make fossil fuel divestment something tangible and accessible for the individual investor.
With studies showing that fossil-fuel investments do not contribute to stock market returns over the long run, and a new ability to diversify investments all while knowing they are low carbon or “fossil free,” Macroclimate stands to help accelerate the movement of divestment by individual investors.
In a show of support, Carbon Credit Capital is now offering to its members – for a limited time only – the opportunity to start investing fossil free with Macroclimate with just $10,000 – dropping the standard minimum investment from $50,000. In addition, Macroclimate is supporting CCC’s offset projects through their commitment to 1% for the Planet.
Check it all out here.
Last week Carbon Credit Capital, a carbon offset and carbon footprint management firm based in Manhattan, entered into partnership with Green Me Locally, a global, community driven directory of green businesses, resources, and green living information.

Green Me Locally (GML) is owned and operated by Ms. Tara LaSalla, who hopes the platform will facilitate connections between businesses who either are looking to “go green,” or who are green product and service providers in business to help others reduce their environmental impact and improve the lives of others, whether locally or globally. In addition, Green Me Locally serves as a resource for individuals to find businesses, products, and services that are good for them and the environment.
The platform is, as previously mentioned, an international operation, allowing an individual in China, and a business in Germany, for example, to collaborate, support, and supply one another. This type of operational model is very timely as the world continues to globalize and businesses begin to consider target markets internationally as opposed to solely domestically. Collaborations of this nature are great, not just for the businesses and individuals who end up coming together on Green Me Locally, but also for the overarching industry sectors and causes those companies and people support on a macro level. Green companies who see a competitor make a splash internationally will have empirical evidence as to whether there is demand for their products and services; consumers who cannot find a specific product or service near them will be able to search the globe for a solution.
Carbon Credit Capital (CCC) realizes the value of Green Me Locally’s model, in that CCC is constantly looking for opportunities to show the world how emissions reductions can be made much more affordably for a much larger number of people and companies. Thus, at the crux of the partnership, CCC is acting as a type of go-to resource for Tara and her consulting and match-making endeavors.
CCC will afford Green Me Locally the ability to point companies interested in understanding and reducing their own emissions in the right direction. Specifically, CCC brings the capacity to help companies calculate their operational, product and service carbon footprints, pair those operations, products and services with emissions reductions, sell carbon neutral products and services, and earn carbon neutral company and product line certifications. CCC will also bring its carbon offset project development expertise to the table for any company wishing to create its own emissions reductions. Individuals will be served by CCC’s capacity to create and customize carbon offset packages and products to fit the needs of anyone.
Together Carbon Credit Capital and Green Me Locally stand to increase both awareness and action regarding reducing and mitigating greenhouse gases on a global scale. When times call for overwhelming action, it is partnerships like these that facilitate execution and scaling of efforts that will make a difference. Keep your eyes peeled for partnerships that result from this collaboration between CCC and GML – if we have anything to say about it – there will be plenty to come!
&nbsp;
Two weeks ago Carbon Credit Capital had somewhat of a homecoming at the Green Festival Expo in New York City.

Just over a year ago I went to a volunteer-sign-up event pre-Festival thinking it was a meeting on programming for the event – turns out I was sorely mistaken. In any event, I told then not-quite-yet Regional Director Scott Luxor about CCC and what we do, and he agreed to arrange a quick meeting with Corinna Basler at the festival two weeks later. We spoke for about 2 minutes and then I heard nothing for several months, until one day I get an email from Dr. Basler herself asking to partner with us. Fast forward 1 year and CCC has now attended four of five shows held in that time (LA ’16, SF ’16, DC ’17, and NYC ’17). We have collectively offset the carbon footprint associated with the attendance of over 12,000 individuals, almost 20 exhibitor’s booths (granting them Carbon Neutral Exhibitor designation) and over 50 tonnes of carbon. Additionally, I have now lectured about the gaps in carbon emissions reductions we need to fill as a planet three times, and have been a judge for choosing the best brands exhibiting at the Festival for the Brand Awards in DC and NYC.
While 50 tonnes, in the grand scheme of things, is a minuscule drop in the ocean (considering the world emits about a net 35,000,000,000 metric tonnes of CO2-equivalent annually), there is a positive trend emerging indicating that CCC’s and GFE’s partnership is growing stronger. We have increasingly offset larger and larger portions of each Festival. Starting with 6 tonnes and ~9% of the Festival in LA, all the way to 22.35 metric tonnes and about 33% of the Festival’s estimated carbon footprint in NYC. The breakdown for NYC came to a final tally of 9 businesses who offset their booth for the weekend, and an equivalent of just over 3,200 individuals who offset their attendance for the day or the weekend. Furthermore, we are working tirelessly to ensure that either come next stop (LA September 23-24), or next year every booth package upgrade will include the cost to offset that exhibitor’s weekend, and will come with a Carbon Neutral Exhibitor certificate. Ideally this move will allow us to offset a much more significant portion of the show and work towards our end goal of making every single Green Festival Expo carbon neutral simply by filling booths and selling tickets.
This time around my co-workers Leo and Pianpian, who did a fantastic job of working the booth, accompanied me in collecting individual offsets as I ran around the festival pitching booth offsets, being a brand judge, and lecturing. What a luxury to have a team – and for a lawyer by training and a technical offset project professional, they both got a pretty damn good handle on selling offsets individually. Frankly, it always amazes me how few people know not a lick about anything we do, but how receptive they are to what we do and thankful they are for our doing it. This time around for the Brand Awards, Joy Nemerson (of TerraCycle) and I were recalled, but we had Abegail Steinberg (Author and national sales manager at WellNext) join us for what was a highly competitive, and narrowly differentiable decision on which of 5 companies to select as the best, most impactful brand.
&nbsp;

&nbsp;
Twin Pines, an ethically and sustainably sourced line of fabrics and fabric accessories, and Belle+Bella, a make-your-own-yogurt-at-home machine manufacturer rounded out our top 5, while Ornaments 4 Orphans (a simple toy and jewelry operation which provides jobs to impoverished workers without access to much or any income in Africa, the proceeds of which go towards finding homes for children who have either lost their parents, or whose parents could not support them, forcing them out of their homes), Woods and Whimsy, LLC (a clean-ingredient, vegan line of delicious smelling deodorants), and By God’s Grace Knits (BGG Knits, a Peruvian knitwear company that employs, educates and empowers women to use their knitting skills to create chic garments wearable all around the world) took 3rd, 2nd, and 1st respectively. (Long sentence there, sorry). This time around Abigail, Joy and myself took some time to create a more universal judging rubric (as discussed in my last post) – but it didn’t make it any easier because this crop of companies all had not only taken into account their environmental impact, waste stream, product effect on consumers, and benefits of employees within the supply chain, but they had all taken deliberate action to ensure these measures were implemented to their liking. So, while we had to choose a first, second, and third prize, in my opinion they are all very well deserving of recognition.

&nbsp;
My lecture went pretty well – was able to fill the full 30 minutes allotted to me, as opposed to rushing through it like I did in DC, but there’s no video this time around, so you’ll have to refer back to DC’s recording, or shoot me an email or a phone call if you’d like to discuss. So – on that note, it is my honor to highlight those companies and individuals who took climate action on-site at the Festival over the two days, and who have earned themselves a Carbon Neutral Exhibitor certification for offsetting the carbon emissions associated with their booth. These business owners and even some employees all recognized how simple and inexpensive it was to offset their booth and gain this distinction, but more importantly, I feel it is important to promote these actors in an effort to show that positive action gets rewarded – they also make great products, offer fantastic services, and provide real care in their own right so do check them out:
My Boo &amp; You

Sister owners Tara Johnson, and Heather Walker have created what seems to be one of the only organic cotton brands that are made exclusively in the USA. Not only is the cotton organic, but the dyes are also phthalate and lead free, the hangtags are “plantable,” and all shipping materials are recyclable. Their entire MO is about supporting American farmers and manufacturers, and in doing so they have also built environmental protection, as well as consumer safety (they are clothing infants and toddlers after all) into every garment they sell. In their own words, “We care because we love to give back. We give to a number of charities and causes through our business because we want to make a difference. We want to inspire. We want to wake the happy in people.” Thus, when I mentioned to Tara and Heather that they could offset their booth for the weekend, their eyes lit up – it was effectively a no brainer for them. Kudos to you both, and here’s to hoping you can really capture and shape as much of this quickly emerging market as possible!



 
Live Vessel




Live vessel was an interesting booth to encounter – the front was a green tea/matcha taste test, with a very fine presentation of preparation, however in the back of the booth and on the shelves were these fine ceramic “tumblers” – completely free of cadmium and lead – all specifically designed to provide an enhanced and thoroughly enjoyable drinking experience. Buried into this dream of providing an experience his consumers can feel good about, William Robinson (Founder) also takes into consideration the environmental impact of his products. Williams decision to offset his booth was similarly an “Aha” moment, where he saw an opportunity to show that not only the physical make up of his products is good for those consuming them, but that the way he presents his company is equally beneficial.


Ki Fitness

Amy at Ki Fitness – an NYC local! – was a pleasure to meet at Javits. A specialist in Ki energy, she gave me a complimentary Ki evaluation for stress levels – which I’m pleased to say, according to Amy were pretty low. We spoke a lot about life and love and loss – she did feel a blockage under my heart, which we ended up attributing to the very sudden loss of my mother in 2012 – and quite frankly offsets were almost an after thought, but when we did discuss CCC’s work she was very intrigued. Her work revolves around ridding the body of negative energy – our work revolves around ridding the world of negative derivatives of using energy (carbon emissions).



 
MJ Lemon




Maheen of MJ Lemon and I had an interesting time primarily discussing with, more so listening to, Brian Mac Mahon (of Expert Dojo) the ways in which MJ Lemon could really break the mold as an Apothecary company. MJ Lemon Apothecary prides itself on being a 100% toxic-free and cruelty-free skincare brand! They strive to bring their consumers ethically-sourced and responsibly sustainable products that are good for the consumers and for the environment. They think that it is important to keep their carbon footprint at its minimum, that is why they partnered with Carbon Credit Capital to offset their carbon emission at the Green Festival.
 
Woods &amp; Whimsy

One of the Brand Award winners, Sandy of W&amp;W was a pretty infectious positive personality! I am almost sure that the entire time she and I talked she had a smile on her face and intrigue in her tone. I have highlighted her product above, but considerable care had gone into how she formulated her product, and how it worked. And it does work – seemingly a whole lot better than the other “natural” deodorant lines out there. Add to this, the fact that Sandy cares as much about the (minimal) environmental impact of her products as she does their efficacy, making her booth carbon neutral for the weekend was like several other booths simply a “duh!”



 
Earth Day Initiative




This one may have been my favorite booth of the weekend. Earth Day Initiative is responsible for setting up a variety of Earth Day programs on and around Earth Day every year, and are right now campaigning for the Count Down to 50 (a count down to the 50th anniversary of the founding of ED). Earth Day Initiative promotes environmental awareness and solutions through partnerships with schools, community organizations, businesses, and governments. Its aim is to embody and carry the spirit of the original Earth Day into every day, whether that be by helping people source their homes with renewable energy or by offsetting the organization’s own carbon footprint. However, the interesting part of this highlight, is that no one in a management position was present at EDI’s booth – only some associates/reps (Mike and Libby), who decided on their own dime to front the $12 to offset EDI’s booth for the weekend. We had a few booth-associates/volunteers do this in DC, and it was really nice to see the trend continue in NYC – just goes to show that sometimes a little personal impetus is all it takes to make a difference. With their decision, they were able to gift EDI with this carbon neutral booth certification.
 
George Pakenham – Director, Producer Idle Threat

George is one of two people mentioned here who I have met previously. He and I met at one of the Green Festival Meet Ups (organized by now-Regional Director, Scott Luxor), where I learned about Idle Threat – his “vigilante” production and documentary about enforcing car idling laws in NYC which were designed to help reduce carbon emissions of over 1m vehicles, but which is also almost completely ignored by the NYPD. Since, we have begun to collaborate on a project that I will not disclose yet here, but what I can say is it has thus far been a fine pleasure to work with George. We caught up at the VIP Launch Party, and he said one of his first orders of business the next day would be offsetting his booth. He made good on his promise and was actually the first Booth of the whole festival to do so. If you haven’t already – go watch Idle Threat!



 
Isokan Collective




The second of two acquaintances I knew pre-festival via Green Meet Up, was Logan Cohen of Isokan. In their own words, Isokan Collective is a hybrid creative agency + production company, an assembly of different talents with one objective: using the power of marketing to elevate brands to a wider range of values.They chose to offset their carbon footprint because they understood that their actions have both internal and external consequences that need to be accounted for.  By offsetting their carbon emissions, we are hoping to encourage others to consider the full life cycle of their actions, and inspire them to take action to reduce their impacts. Couldn’t have said it much better myself!
 
BGG Knits

Yet another Brand Award winner (the #1 at that) showing that their commitment to the issues that matter and make a difference get you the recognition you deserve. I was very impressed with this company, and while it was a close call between BGG and Woods and Whimsy, BGG really took the cake because they are literally creating something from nothing. The women they employ and empower use an animal product without harming the animals in the least bit, they create a product by hand, and pretty much the only carbon emissions from their entire operation is shipping. Lean, green, social/woman’s rights machine. Offsetting their booth similarly was a snap decision – no convincing was necessary, Jen sees that this is just how business should be done, and so, this is how she does business!



 
&nbsp;

I think I have seen more posts on this topic in the last 12 hours than perhaps there were when the Agreement was passed back in 2015. Some are sounding the alarm, some are claiming the Paris Agreement was a sham anyway, and should never have been signed. Which is it? Is it really so bad that the US is pulling out of the deal? Does the deal even actually accomplish what we need as a planet?

Let’s try to bring some clarity to this situation. First of all: the deal’s goal of limiting global temperature rise well below 2 degrees Celsius when compared to pre-Industrial Revolution concentrations of CO2 &#8211; is this a worthy endeavor?
YEAH – unless you’re up for inundated ports globally, sending hundreds of millions of people into Syria-like migrant patterns, and likely permanently disrupting the supply of staple commodities (food, cotton, you name it, if it depends on a stable climate, it’s at risk), which will in turn disrupt traditionally reliable commodity markets on a global scale. So again, unless you are comfortable saying, “no, none of those potential negative outcomes is worth protecting against, or seriously preparing for,” then the Paris Agreement and subsequent climate action is not just a good idea but absolutely necessary. By the way, no smart investor in the world would fly so blindly into such risk (just look at all of the big banks now scrambling to assess climate risk as thoroughly as the US military has been doing for years).
Now on to a more interesting question, does the Paris Accord actually mitigate these clearly identified threats of a rapidly changing climate? Most critiques are citing the fact that the current commitments would only constitute a 0.3 degree Celsius drop in temperature would say no – the deal is a sham, we’re going to spend $100 Trillion over the next 100 years to do not much. Is that worth it? Maybe, maybe not. The better question is how much are we likely to spend on disaster relief and resources whose price has skyrocketed due to a global shortage? Tens to hundreds of billions of dollars are already being spent annually in the US alone. Keep in mind that, like the idea of a graduated carbon tax, the Paris Agreement was put in place to be a foundation. We start small, and every 5 years reassess to determine how much farther we can push, so 0.3 degrees is not the final stop.
Nevertheless, trying to stay objective here, do also keep in mind the fact that we are talking about 2 degrees, and 0.3 degrees is 15% of 2 degrees. So the Paris Agreement, as it stands now, if followed to the “T” would only constitute 15% of what we need to do. To answer my previous question bluntly then – no, the Paris Agreement definitely does not even come close to the type of action we need globally. In addressing the US question, we constitute about 14% of the worlds GHG emissions on an annual basis at about 5 billion tonnes of CO2e, however, that’s not what was pledged in our commitments. We pledged a 28% reduction in our 2005 levels, which nets out to about 3.5 billion tonnes in annual emissions by 2025 as opposed to 5 billion tonnes. That’s not exactly what we need – that falls very far short of what we need, both as a country and as a planet.
I feel as though I shouldn’t even have to address this but because of the current global predicament we find ourselves in with heated nationalism pulling at the very fabric of reason and scientific method – but there is not one reason why we should take the logical leap in saying, “well because the Paris Agreement falls way short of our goals, we should probably just completely abandon the effort all together!”
My question to the people of the world is this: are you serious about climate change? Or do you just like to say you care? Are you actually frightened that we will be growing old and dying (my age group -18-30 let’s say) in a resource scarce, potentially disease-ridden (due to inundation), war-stricken (due to land-grabs and population migrations) world, or are you just trying to give Donald Trump flack because he’s also screwing up some other policy measure you care more deeply about? 
The immediate solutions to climate change are not constrained to the Paris agreement! You’re absolutely kidding yourself if you think any of this is going to be remediated by policy and policy alone. No, policy can help prop up great ideas and solutions, but it cannot be depended upon when every couple of years to 5 years we have leadership changing the course 180 degrees.
Might I offer a more favorable, more financially feasible, more immediately actionable and accountable climate solution?
Look to the cities and mayors and companies of the world who have, in backlash, voluntarily committed themselves to the Paris Accord. Some are going further than what their equivalent commitment would be. But don’t stop there, because even if 30 cities and the biggest companies in the world were carbon neutral tomorrow (let’s say the Fortune 5,000) we’re still likely going to have about 25-30 billion metric tonnes to mitigate every year until we can get everything down to zero. It’s going to come down to every city and every company and individual in the world to address their own carbon emissions whether under mandate or their own volition.
Look rather to the energy providers who are offering switches to renewable energy. Check a box, displace fossil fuels – some of this stuff is really as simple as that. Look to the companies, like Patagonia, for example, who are literally overhauling their entire supply chain to reflect a positive cycle, where their growth regenerates the earth and brings wealth to those who make your down jacket possible. Look to the companies who are already carbon neutral.
And quite frankly, look to Carbon Credit Capital (&#8220;CCC&#8221;). We have, now for the past 6 years or so, been a resource for individuals and corporates to immediately reduce their carbon emissions via high quality carbon offset (carbon mitigation) projects. We are in the midst of making it as easy as a few clicks to eliminate the impact of your home, your daily lives, your lunch, your new sweater, you name it, it’s possible. We run a program that has absolutely zero policy dependence, can be implemented at no direct cost to any company, and passes costs on to consumers in increments of as little as $0.01 &#8211; $0.5, or $1. By doing so we are able to build the cost of carbon mitigation into the cost of what you and I buy on a daily basis. This way, simply by consuming, we tackle carbon emissions – we are able to reach our goals of net zero emissions by year end as opposed to mid century, through innovative initiatives like these.
Carbon capture and sequestration (CCS – the cornerstone of future emissions reductions under the Paris Agreement) are expensive as all hell, and are unproven to be scalable at the rate at which is needed. Do not depend on unicorn technologies or knight-in-shining-armor politicians. I forget who said it, but the quote, “if you want something done you have to do it yourself,” comes to mind. The resources, the tools, the finance is out there, its in your web browser, your pockets, and soon to be in the products you buy (if we have anything to say about it). It comes down to whether you’re going to play your part. Isn’t that the whole silver lining here? When our leaders don’t step up to the challenge, it’s on us. This is an opportunity to be a leader yourself, to make a difference yourself, to spit in the faces of those who would otherwise undermine you, and to rise up and accomplish your goals in spite of them. Which is it going to be America? World?
Don’t tell me, go to CCC’s webstore, tell your local businesses you buy from often to join Carbon Neutral Checkout™, follow these guidelines from New York Times, tell Con-Ed you want renewable energy, offset your flights, travel and your own business. Go make it happen yourselves – nothing’s stopping you but you, not Donald Trump, not Mike Pence, not Steve Bannon – if you haven’t done anything to act on climate by now look no further than the mirror for an opportunity to be the shining star they refuse to be.
&nbsp;
By Reed Shapiro
Third time’s a charm! While this may not be universally true – my third trip to the Green Festival Expo was, thus far, the best show we (CCC) have had for a few reasons.

After my deer-in-the-headlights, 1-man haul to Los Angeles, and a relatively more grounded round-two in San Fran (both last fall), I felt very much at ease heading down to Washington D.C. for the first stop on the 2017 circuit of Green Festivals. The weekend started off with an invitation to the VIP Kick-Off party, where I was pleased to see CCC’s Partner logo stamped right on the party bags that were being handed out that night and both of the next two days at the Convention Center.
Not only was CCC included in this relatively exclusive evening, but I had been asked by the lovely ladies running the Expo to be one of three judges for the Brand Awards, a publically voted-on contest that boiled down to 5 different brands which myself, Joy Nemerson (of TerraCycle), and Aaron Kahlow (of Conscious Company) would interview and determine a ranking of 1st through 5th. All five companies were fantastic in their own ways – a bamboo line of toilet paper; a permaculture, grow-your-own-veggies-at-home company with an online platform for information and best practice sharing; a completely up-cycled line of rubber dog leashes and wallets, an extremely innovative kidney health drink; and a company with a revolutionary way to make consistent weed-food. We ended up choosing Permaculture in first place for their potential to transform local, small scale food operations and deliver healthy eating options to almost anyone, Tubular Gear in second for their sheer volume of up-cycled materials and the regenerative model of taking waste and making it useable, and Bambooloo in third for their forward thinking business that, if scaled could have an incredible impact on the insane number of trees that get flushed down the toilet every day (something like the equivalent of 17,000 trees in America alone each day).
As we move forward, and as I do a few more rounds of judging, I very much look forward to working with Dr. Basler (Corinna, the President of the Green Festivals) to come up with a more universal and widely applicable set of metrics by which to make these decisions. Furthermore, I am hoping we can begin to incorporate a number of the vendors at each Festival to allow companies an opportunity to make improvements to their sustainability and corporate responsibility regimens right there at every show, and potentially take 1st place by fostering new partnerships and strategic alignments—all on site. Hopefully by the end of the 2017 year of shows we will have something to show for ourselves!
In between judging for the Brand Awards on Saturday morning, and speaking on Sunday afternoon (just before announcing the winners of the Brand Awards—video below if you’re interested), I approached the Festival with a hybrid strategy—taking the best from my time in LA (trying to get individuals to offset their attendance—dollar by dollar) and in SF (networking with businesses at their own booths to try to enroll them in CCC’s Carbon Neutral Checkout™ initiative) – spending an hour or two getting individuals to offset their attendance, and then spending an hour or two getting exhibitors to make their booths carbon neutral for the weekend.

Without a doubt, this was the most successful run CCC has had in helping the Green Festivals reduce the carbon footprint of their event. 10 exhibitors offset their booths to make them a carbon neutral exhibitor (all highlighted below), and the equivalent of over 950 attendees combined to offset 14 metric tonnes of CO2-equivalent associated with the Festival. All together, we were able to offset just over 21% of the estimated 66 metric tonnes of CO2e associated with the Festival. Our previous best was 9%. Of course, CCC is still pushing for GFE to build the cost to offset their whole show into the cost of attendance and exhibition, making each event carbon neutral simply by selling tickets and booth packages but this is good progress!
As we move quickly towards the NYC show next weekend (at Javits Center tickets here – and promo code for discounted tickets: XNY17Y377) CCC plans on having a strong showing with more than just 1 employee – my colleagues Pianpian Wang and Leo Leibovitch will be making their Green Festival debuts to help both run the booth and encourage exhibitors to make their exhibits carbon neutral through our Green Festival-specific offset packages.
In the hopes of making this move a more exciting prospect, I wanted to also take some time to highlight the companies who decided to make their booths carbon neutral a few weeks ago at the DC Festival. Some of them are from the brand awards – but all of them are showcasing how having a greener product, and operating a more sustainable business (whether through internal measures, or through efforts like offsetting) gets you more recognition, and closer attention. We have an opportunity to really walk the walk at these Festivals, and in partnership with the Festivals nationally, CCC looks to take advantage of every opportunity to bring more and more companies together in an effort to both reduce carbon emissions, and also foster meaningful, long-lasting collaborations between those in attendance and those who are exhibiting.
Some of the companies highlighted here have descriptions, pictures, or both. Some do not. I have reached out to each one asking for a bio and/or pic, or why they chose to offset, so if you don’t see any full description, its because there was no comment. Either way, check them all out, they’re doing great things in their own right, but especially check them out and support them because of the pro-active responsibility they have taken upon themselves as businesses and business owners!
Earth Rights Institute
While the Earth Rights Institute didn’t offset their footprint for the weekend directly as an organization, one of their colleagues, Courtney Dowe “came through in the clutch,” to come offset their booth for the weekend with less than 5 minutes left in the day on Sunday. A particularly kind and thoughtful gesture that I am more than sure her co-workers/co-volunteers appreciate. Just goes to show that playing your small part in reducing the carbon footprint of the things you do can be done in just a few minutes, for just a few dollars, and that when we take all things into consideration, all of these small individual actions add up to (eventually) outstrip the actions of even the most progressive and proactive industry leaders.
Bambooloo
“I was more than happy to take action and make a small financial donation to offset the carbon footprint produced by our attendance at this weekend&#8217;s event! BAMBOOLOO was born with the belief and expectation that, no matter how small, thoughtful and deliberate actions contribute to large-scale changes that affect the health and sustainability of our planet.”
As mentioned above – Bambooloo was one of the top three brands at the DC Festival, and they are absolutely right in saying that small scale actions deliver large scale changes.

&nbsp;
Trey Bent
Trey acted on behalf of his uncle’s food court vendor station and offset their spot for the weekend with practically zero hesitation. As soon as he understood what the offer was, he considered it a no-brainer. Unfortunately we have no Logo, nor website to link to for Trey’s company, but his resolve to exhibit responsibly certainly deserves a shout out!
Save Our Planet
“I am happy to offset my carbon footprint with CCC (Carbon Credit Capital) by protecting the Amazon rainforest, an important carbon sink that reduces the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere and mitigates the rate of global warming.”
Sheida Kourangi, of Share International magazine shows the unity of current political, social and environmental changes and advocates the Principle of Sharing as the simplest way to restore balance and equilibrium to the environment and create a sustainable future for all.

&nbsp;
Holistic Veterinary Healing
Holistic Veterinary Healing is a veterinarian clinic in Germantown, MD that offers a broad range of integrative and holistic care for your pets. Dr. Pema Mallu has decades of experience helping pets heal and stay healthy. However, it was Cecelia Bonfils who stepped up and offset the Hospital’s carbon footprint for the weekend.
They promise you can rest assured that each pet receives high-quality compassionate care. Who knows – perhaps in the near future you’ll be able to have a carbon neutral Vet experience!

&nbsp;
&nbsp;
Shenandoah Spice Company
In a similar fashion to Trey Bent, Josh Burrows – one of the founders of the SSC – was up for offsetting his exhibit at the festival practically as the words flowed out of my mouth. I would of course be remiss to omit the practically infinite number of different spice mixes, rubs, and combinations heaped on his table. I even bought some for myself that seemed too good to pass up (dill yogurt rub, herbs de Provence, and a curry barbeque rub). I’ve had a chance to cook with these spices a few times now, and certainly give two thumbs up – keep up the good work gentlemen!

&nbsp;
American Herbalists Guild – DC Metro Chapter
“The American Herbalists Guild Washington DC Metro Chapter formed to connect herbalists with those interested in herbalism. AHG DC provides collaborative learning opportunities, business networking and collaboration and promotes herbal knowledge in our community by organizing educational workshops, plant walks and seminars.”
I met the local chapter President, Eliza, at the VIP Launch Party on Friday night and was pleasantly surprised to have her participation in our carbon neutral exhibitor push come Sunday. The Guild stands to be a solid player in the efforts I mention to make the Green Festival live on throughout the year, beyond the 2 days and 4 walls of the actual venue. Hopefully by the time next years festival rolls around their network is able to grow and thrive both within and outside of the show.

&nbsp;
Jahmu PBC
Jess Filkins of Jahmu Chai was also one of those in attendance at the Launch Party on Friday night and was showcasing her fantastically fragrant line of tea and milk mixes. I have since had a chance to try her caffeine free chai mix, and that thing packs a punch of flavor to savor! While I have no direct quote, Jess, along with Josh and Trey was taken aback with how simple it is to offset your footprint for the weekend, and were it not for her being a solo exhibitor (like myself) she literally almost jumped at the opportunity. The mixes have been a hit at the office since I’ve been back, and I imagine we’ll end up placing an order for more once our current stash runs out!
Leaders in Energy
Janine Finnell – the executive director of Leaders In Renewable Energy – a group of very talented experts and professionals (of which I am now privileged to consider myself a member) – was/is quite the hip lady! She stopped by the booth and before long was shouting us out on about every form of social media you can conjure. Janine was speaking at the conference, but did have to travel for the weekend and so she too offset her attendance as a presenter/speaker. Because she didn’t have a booth of her own, here is the picture Janine posted of the two of us on Twitter.

&nbsp;
Chesapeake Bay Roasting Company
As the first Exhibitor of the weekend to offset their footprint from the Festival, Chesapeake is, of course as happenstance would have it, the last one to be included in this highlight. I could see the business cogs in the GM, Kevin’s head turning as we discussed what sort of recognition they could gain by doing something like earning a carbon neutral Exhibitor certification for the weekend. Seemed to make enough sense for him right away. As a company with USDA Organic and Fair Trade certifications, like the other Exhibitors who didn’t need to mull the prospect over much, Kevin saw this as a pretty simple way to get some solid recognition in addition to the great work they already do every day.

&nbsp;
By Pianpian Wang and Reed Shapiro
The year 2017 has been designed as the International Year of Sustainable Tourism for Development by the United Nations 70th General Assembly. The key areas this campaign aims to promote are “resource efficiency, environmental protection and climate change.” As a crucial sector supporting the tourism industry, aviation has been gearing up to deal with climate change by reducing its carbon emissions in recent years.
&nbsp;

Aviation is generally recognized as being responsible for 12% of CO2 emissions from all transport sources globally. When looking at all emissions on a global scale, flights produced 781 million tonnes of CO2 in 2015, about 2% of the 36 billion tonnes of CO2 produced by humans annually.
Airlines Are the Main Targets
Under the Paris Agreement, domestic aviation emissions are managed under the nationally determined contributions (NDCs), yet to mitigate the carbon emissions from international flights, the UN’s International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) – the international body which regulates the international aviation sector – adopted the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) on 6 October 2016. The CORSIA is designed to complement the basket of mitigation measures the air transportation community is already pursuing to reduce CO2 emissions from international aviation. CORSIA has been focusing on the following areas:
a. State Action Plans and Market-based Measures (MBMS)
As of April 21, 2017, 67 States, representing more than 87.5% of international aviation activity, intend to voluntarily participate in the global MBM scheme from its outset. That means that starting from 2021, the 67 participating states will collect and calculate their international flights’ carbon emissions and purchase carbon offsets to neutralize the carbon impact as well as support projects that reduce carbon emissions and generate carbon offsets.

Meanwhile, the European Commission published a proposal on February 3rd of this year, which envisages continuing with the current approach for aviation under the EU Emissions Trading System from 2017 to 2021. This means that intercontinental flights departing from or landing in the EU would continue to be exempt from the EU ETS
b. Sustainable Alternative Fuels
Since fuel consumption is the main source of CO2 emissions in the aviation sector, sustainable and lower-emission alternative fuels will play a significant role in the CORSIA with a focus on making air trips greener.
&nbsp;
Currently, biofuels are the primary alternative to traditional fossil fuels. More specifically, the aviation industry is investigating second-generation feedstocks that can be grown or produced without negatively impacting food supplies, water or land use.
With that said, the main challenges currently stymying a wide deployment of alternative jet fuels are not technical, but commercial and political. This is because a number of alternative jet fuel production pathways are more expensive than the fossil fuels currently being used. Governmental incentives are needed to allow airlines to make these shifts.
c. Global Aspirational Goals
In October 2013, ICAO and its Member States agreed to work together to strive towards achieving a collective medium term global goal of keeping the net global CO2 emissions from international aviation at the same level post-2020 (so-called &#8220;carbon neutral growth from 2020&#8221;).
To maintain this momentum, ICAO adopted a draft CO2 standard for new aircrafts in February 2016. According to a preliminary analysis by US-based International Council on Clean Transportation (ICCT), the standard will require an average of a 4% reduction in the cruise fuel consumption of new aircrafts starting in 2028, compared to 2015 deliveries, with the actual reductions ranging from 0 to 11%.
&nbsp;
Don’t Forget the Airports
While aircraft operators have been the point of focus in showing concerns about carbon mitigation, airports &#8211; equally important venues and players when it comes to facilitating flights &#8211; have been working towards sustainable development as well.
&nbsp;
As of May 8, 2017, 189 airports around the world have participated in a carbon emissions mapping and reporting program hosted by Airport Carbon Accreditation, an organization that develops and implements carbon management certification standard for airports. By understanding the sources of carbon emissions and taking actions to reduce their impact, airports can create a better environment for attracting airlines, airport business vendors, and travelers.
We Are all Part of Carbon Mitigation
We travelers also play a key role in acting to reduce carbon emissions. It is even possible to posit that the public currently has more potential than the stakeholders above (airlines and airports) in the aviation industry to drive emissions mitigation.
As individuals, we enjoy the convenience of flying anywhere, and are not obligated to pay for the part we play in contributing to these ever-growing emissions of the aviation sector. Although relevant international organizations, airports and airline companies are putting the above agreements, legal decisions, and initiatives into place, these measures require time to refine technologies, get other prerequisites ready for implementation, and actually go into effect (some of these regulations are more than a decade away from coming into play). We cannot afford to lose more time in the battle addressing climate change and environmental protection.
Offsetting your trips and emissions from travel (including both aviation and ground transport) is much easier than you think, and the benefits are permanent and immediate &#8211; something policy just can’t touch in terms of effectiveness and urgency.
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
Just in advance of Earth Day (April 22), Carbon Credit Capital was invited to speak at a panel discussion organized by Best for NYC with a focus on how companies can embed environmental responsibility into their own business models.

Together with representatives of Pisticci Restaurant and WATT + FLUX (an LED Inspire Company), Reed Shapiro, Carbon Credit Capital’s Director of Business Development spoke on behalf of the company about how others can use simple metrics to calculate and then mitigate the environmental impact of their operations, products or services.
At the panel discussion, the three panelists gave a brief introduction to their value-driven businesses and how the businesses have incorporated the environmental best practices into their operations and services.
The panelists were also asked about the main challenges they have faced while implementing environmental considerations into their business models. Reed mentioned that lack of education about what carbon offsets are, and their inherent benefits to brand identity and market penetration is the biggest barrier to taking action. Stacie Alexiou, Founder of WATT + FLUX, also stated that clients generally focus on instant profits and costs but overlook the accumulated impact of energy efficiency and other environmentally friendly measures. Both panelists highlighted the fact that while it is often viewed as a challenge, the most necessary step a business can take is to quantify their use and impact early on. Appropriate and responsible action can only be taken once baseline measurements have been conducted, giving companies an insight into which pieces of their business stands to benefit most from taking immediate action, and which parts of the business will be most challenging, requiring a more in depth and long term strategy to address.

As a small business owner, Michael Forte of Pisticci Restaurant thinks that the biggest hurdle for small businesses is that it takes time to build environmental responsibility into the fabric of a business, due to a limited budget of both time and money. That being said, he also admits that it is doable, as Pisticci has now been in business for over 15 years, and has continually strengthened its environmental practices to the point of net carbon neutrality. Through purchasing carbon credits after conducting energy audits, then graduating to generating his own compost and growing the very food they serve at the restaurant, Michael gradually started exploring more and more ways to reduce business costs while doing good for the environment, culminating in running a net-carbon neutral restaurant with an almost entirely self-sufficient supply chain. Michael also suggested that small businesses can obtain good insights and guidance by joining relevant industry associations and networks.
The three panelists all agree that passion is the most important element that prompts businesses taking environmental actions – it is one thing to twist someone’s arm to be green, it is another dynamic entirely when those parties involved truly want to be the best they can be – whether that is in regard to the environment, their consumers, or the products or services they provide. With that said, all three panelists stressed with great importance the idea that being green, or carbon neutral, or purchasing products that will save money over time can be done with ever-more ease whether there is passion or not. We are reaching a point in time where there the hurdles to being green – even carbon neutral – are constantly diminishing.
Carbon Credit Capital was selected as a finalist of the Best for NYC challenge in 2015. We have dedicated and advocated small and medium-sized companies to reduce the carbon emissions generated from their business operations and product development and manufacturing processes. Our Carbon Neutral Checkout™ (CNC™) initiative gives companies the opportunity to calculate their carbon and greenhouse gas baselines, while also implementing innovative pricing mechanisms to distribute the costs of taking action in a way where companies do not have to pay directly to achieve substantial or total net-emissions reductions, while also giving consumers a way to make a difference with the purchases they make on a daily basis. CNC™ allows us all to bridge the gaps to a carbon neutral world every day and drive modern consumerism from a process that strains and degrades the natural resources of the world, to one that rejuvenates and protects those critical resources.
The below video clip from the panel discussion serves as a quick introduction to the three speakers and Best for NYC campaign:

Carbon Credit Capital (CCC) and Protect Our Winters (POW), a Boulder, Colorado-based NGO focused on advancing climate action within the winter sports community, entered into a mutual agreement to make carbon offsets more available to the members of the POW community.

The main focus of the partnership will be to offer CCC’s range of carbon offset and carbon footprint management products and services to those ski resorts, apparel companies, and individuals that make up the POW community to facilitate the reduction of emissions in the winter sports industry.

Protect Our Winters will collaborate with CCC to make CCC’s Carbon Neutral Checkout™, Carbon Offset Project Development, and Customized Retail Offset solutions available to their constituents. Through Carbon Neutral Checkout™ ski resorts will be able to offer carbon neutral ski and stay experiences, and individuals will be able to offset the carbon impacts of their time at a mountain, or of the gear they buy. Resorts interested in developing their own carbon offset projects, and either applying the emissions reductions to their operations, or selling them on the voluntary carbon markets will have full access to CCC’s Offset Project Development capabilities. Additionally opportunities to offset the carbon footprint of individuals and trips will be accessible through POW’s website.
It is with a mutual understanding between POW and CCC that they embark on this partnership to further engage every facet of the winter sports community. Both entities agree that we need bold action from all individuals, resorts, and outdoor brands if the emissions reduction goals outlined by the international community are to be met within their specified time frame. As several of CCC’s employees are winter and winter sports enthusiasts themselves, this partnership is particularly welcomed, and we look forward to moving the dial within an industry whose vitality depends on doing so!
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
By Pianpian Wang
Earth Hour is an event organized by the World Wildlife Foundation (WWF) that aims to heighten people’s awareness of climate change, carbon impact and related issues, by turning off lights for one hour on a specific date in March every year. This year’s Earth Hour will be between 8:30pm – 9:30pm, on Saturday, March 25, 2017.

The first time I joined the Earth Hour Campaign was in China in 2009. I can remember turning off lights at home and opening the balcony window to borrow some light from the street. My family was sitting together on the sofa and talking about random things. The hour passed more quickly than I imagined it would, and we all had a great time just talking to one another.
Several years later, Earth Hour has become more and more influential. In 2016 alone, 178 countries (territories), 1.2 million individuals together with 12,700 landmarks actively participated in the campaign. Compared to Earth Hour’s figures in 2007, which were only 2.2 million people and 2,100 businesses as participants the movement has taken a strong hold among the business world. The campaign has been spread broadly and successfully within 9 years.
As the initiative gains increasing notoriety, comments and critiques have begun to discuss whether or not the Earth Hour is doing any good. I personally don’t think that people’s focus should be on the necessity of the Earth Hour campaign. As WWF said, Earth Hour is a symbolic event that allows people concerned with climate change to connect around the world. If it works well, we should look into why it works well and how Earth Hour has attracted a large amount of participants instead.
Several features of the Earth Hour campaign are summarized as follows:
Firstly, Earth Hour has a very clear request, which is to advocate for people to switch the light off for one hour once a year. Climate change is a complicated problem, but Earth Hour uses an eye-catching way to connect a simple behavior, like using electricity, to climate change, with the purpose of spreading the message as broad as possible that seemingly small or insignificant actions add up.
Secondly, participating in the Earth Hour campaign is easy for anyone. One important reason that many other environment related campaigns have relatively low participation rate is because people are either asked to make a dramatic change in their living habits, or are requested to make a contribution well beyond their capacity. Plus, environmental protection results are generally long-term based and are difficult for the public to track, which makes people back off sometimes. However, if the desired result is achievable without meddling with people’s interests, the majority would like to do it. It’s not rocket science – you feel good mentally when you do good things.
Similar to joining the Earth Hour, people can also purchase carbon credits to mitigate their daily carbon impact with no need for dramatic changes personal habits. The carbon credits are generated from forestry, renewable energy or other environmentally friendly projects that reduce carbon emissions. Purchase the carbon credits equals support these projects.
Finally, Earth Hour allows people to connect and reconnect. No matter whether it is a small family gathering, like my family did as stated above, or a big march, or party organized by local WWF partners, Earth Hour provides an opportunity for people to socialize and share their thoughts, which includes more people in the movement, even though they might not fully understand climate change just yet.
Planting a concept in people’s mind is the prerequisite for taking action, yet it is not easy to achieve. Earth Hour has done a good job to include many stakeholders in this regard, which provides a good lesson for all environmental campaign organizers.
Carbon Credit Capital recently entered a partnership with Hypenica to help offset the impact of its three events in the construction field:


KZN Construction Trade Expo 22 – 23 February 2017, Durban, South Africa
African Construction and Totally Concrete Expo 23 – 24 May 2017, Johannesburg, South Africa
Cape Construction Expo 15 &#8211; 16 August 2017, Cape Town, South Africa

Hypenica is an international media group that enjoys its reputation on promoting new opportunities and enabling more effective business in the concrete and construction, transport infrastructure and agriculture sectors.
One of Hypenica’s organizational values is innovation, which means that this group has a desire and ability to venture into new and groundbreaking areas of opportunity in order to continuously improve. This desire for improvement also makes Hypenica open to innovative ideas and concepts that fulfill its mission, and that will mitigate carbon emission impacts.
Carbon Credit Capital understands Hypenica’s desires and develops solutions to make events go carbon neutral. In collaboration, Carbon Credit Capital and Hypenica have created a way for Hypenica’s event exhibitors to offset their carbon footprint generated from attending each expo.

The collaboration allows exhibitors to eliminate the carbon emissions they generate from travelling to and from the show; shipping brand materials, products, and booth equipment to and from the show; staying at hotels; eating food and consuming materials which are sent to waste. The overall carbon emissions generated when an exhibitor attends a Hypenica event is about 1 metric ton of Carbon Dixoide or the equivalent (CO2e).
Exhibitors can go to Carbon Credit Capital’s Credit Store to purchase the “Exhibitor Package – For Hypenica Events.” The money from every purchase will support projects that reduce carbon dioxide globally, and which neutralize the impact of the greenhouse gases released by exhibitors when they attend Hypenica events.
By integrating the concept of carbon neutral expositions into the event, Hypenica’s events will be more carbon responsible than ever before.
On Nov. 11, Carbon Credit Capital (&#8220;CCC&#8221;) was invited to attend the Greentech Investor Forum. Leo Leibovitch, on behalf of the company, talked about low carbon projects and how the projects can help tackle the impacts of climate change at the event as a guest speaker.

As Carbon Credit Capital’s Project Director, Leo has abundant experience on emission reduction project development and carbon credit markets. He pointed out that, while given recent progress on the international front to have governments tackle global climate change issues, these efforts are increasingly seen by the society at large as insufficient to get to a “2-degree world”. Therefore, it is obvious that private sector must do its part to mitigate the negative effects of their carbon footprint impact. The implementation challenge, however, has been the cost of engaging in such climate-friendly activities, which is especially high and sometimes prohibitive for small- and medium size businesses, which constitute the main target audience for CCC services.
CCC proposes a suite of unique and innovative solutions to not only help such businesses that are interested in doing good for the environment but cannot afford to, but also to engage their customer base to make them a part of the solution as well. The secret lies in the price sharing mechanism, where carbon offsets are paid for in part by consumers of given businesses&#8217; goods or services, thus alleviating the burden from the organization budgets while at the same time boosting corporate bottom lines.

Several studies have shown over time that customers are more and more inclined to pay a premium for environmentally-friendly products, so it is up to the businesses to deliver such offering in the innovative ways. CCC helps them reach that goal without straining their wallets. The audience at the event has reacted positively to the demonstration of how this can be achieved by way of an example of a ride-sharing service offering “carbon-neutral” trips and the respective cost breakdown. The attendees have shown a particular interest to how this model can be applied to and scaled up in a variety of business settings and different industries worldwide. Their interest was further substantiated during a lively discussion that followed for about an hour after the event concluded.

By Pianpian Wang &amp; Leo Leibovitch

The twenty-second session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 22), the twelfth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP 12), and the first session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA 1) were held in Marrakech, Morocco from 7-18 November 2016.

COP 22 was marked as the “Action COP” before it opened. That’s because the main goal of COP 22 is to develop a detailed implementation plan to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which was approved in COP 21 in Paris. The importance of the Paris Agreement lies in the reason that it will set the direction for international climate action for the coming decades. The Paris Agreement entered into force on November 4, 2016, just before COP 22 started. So far, 116 Parties of 197 Parties to the Convention have ratified, which represents the majority of the total global greenhouse gas emissions sources.
After the two weeks of effort, Parties (countries) at the COP 22 adopted 35 decisions that are mostly related to the implementation of the Paris Agreement, including the following:

Set 2018 as the deadline for developing a rulebook for the implementation of the Agreement, based on transparency and accountability.
The Adaptation Fund, which was created in 2001, will serve the Agreement.
Adopted a five-year work plan for the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage.
The Parties endorsed the Marrakech Action Proclamation, which reaffirms their commitment to implementing the Paris Agreement. They established the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action, a platform that facilitates the involvement of non-state actors in pre-2020 climate action.

With these decisions in place, we need to think about what the decisions mean for the private sector and how they will affect business operations in a general sense.
Carbon Reduction has to be bolder by action, not talking
This indication lies in three aspects.
First of all, countries came to an agreement and committed to put the Paris deal into action by 2018, after years of endless negotiations. This set a tone for motivating countries to make their own intended nationally determined contributions (INDCs) count and even go bolder for some countries. For example, outside the formal negotiations in Marrakech, the ‘Climate Vulnerable Forum‘, a group of 48 developing countries, declared their intention to switch to 100 % renewable energy between 2030 and 2050. Canada, Germany, Mexico, and the USA laid out strategies for decarbonising their economies by 2050, with more countries to follow. With the INDCs got laid out, some business sectors will be the targets to reduce carbon emissions.
Secondly, market-based carbon reduction tools could be heavily affected by each country’s domestic laws and policies by 2018. While many professionals in the field estimated that the market mechanisms should be one of the elements worth watching in Marrakech, COP 22 made no decisions on rules for mechanisms under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, nor made any finalization of the reform of Clean Development Mechanism modalities and procedures.
Considering that the provision of market mechanisms was just added last year, the Parties may require more time on exploring potential options under this provision as well as accessing them. In this context, the more practices that we will have, the more examples and options there are for selection. Furthermore, companies may consider to invest in advance technologies to preempt the field before specific mandatory requirements are out.
Thirdly, regional cooperation is happening in the carbon market despite the international agreement is stuck. China will officially launch a national carbon trading program in 2017, meanwhile, China, Japan and South Korea plan to jointly develop a regional carbon market to maximize their respective domestic carbon markets’ impact.
Non-state Players are playing a significant role
COP 22 was all about financing, since COP 22 is a technical COP &#8211; focusing on how to translate into actions, and finance being a key element of such translation. However, the previous finance deadlock suggested that other funding sources should be considered besides the traditional financing route from developed countries. That’s how  the business sector was brought into the game since COP 19.
Business sector holds and manages a crucial amount of financial resources in most countries, which means that the sector has capacity to contribute to sustainable development and low carbon economy. During COP 22, a Business and Industrial Day (Nov. 9) was designated to the business sector for their importance. Representatives from the private and public sectors showcased corporate action and discussed how it can be rapidly scaled-up ahead of 2020. Business leaders are taking heed; more companies are now committed to leadership on climate action than at any time in history, in order to reduce carbon emissions. Nowadays, businesses aim to measure and cut carbon emissions from their energy use, transportation, and supply-chain operations.
It is worth mentioning that more than 300 U.S. companies, including 72 with annual revenues exceeding $100 million, have sent an open letter to President-elect Donald Trump, urging him not to abandon the Paris climate agreement.
Meanwhile, international industrial organizations, such as the International Civil Aviation Organization and the shipping industry, are undertaking more responsibilities to curb carbon impact via various ways, including purchasing carbon credits. With the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action established, we should expect further engagement from these international industrial bodies to bring out greater impact. Additionally, many cities’ climate change agendas are becoming more and more diverse than those on state and national levels. According to a report published by C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group, the world&#8217;s cities must invest around $375 billion in climate action and low carbon infrastructure over the next four years in order to avoid catastrophic global climate change. Government funding cannot satisfy this finance demand alone, so it opens up opportunities for investments by the business sector.  That is why public-private partnerships are increasingly gaining popularity.
In the recent years, in particular after COP 20, the business sector has undertaken more responsibilities to tackle climate change. Yet it also means that more policy incentives and favors are emerging. Doing business as usual cannot help your company to go further in the context of climate change and low carbon economy development. One must look toward a long-term perspective and change the mindset built within your company today to achieve a brighter, cleaner future tomorrow.
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
By Reed Shapiro

What a difference two months make.  The ignorance with which I went into my first Green Festival Expo in Los Angeles in September had been shed, and further work has been done between Carbon Credit Capital and the Green Festivals to improve upon our showing and execution of how we approach offsetting each event.

&nbsp;
The biggest difference this time around was the routine with which I exhibited and attended the festival. In LA I focused painstakingly on getting individuals to offset their attendance footprints, and while there were hundreds of people who did their part and offset their minuscule portion of the show’s footprint, we fell well short of our goal to get the entire show down to carbon neutral. Secondly, I spent about every waking moment of the festival planted in my booth, as opposed to walking the halls and getting better acquainted with other exhibitors. We were able to take away a few key partnerships from Los Angeles with Jilcat Industrial Marketing Company, who has a pretty groundbreaking line of fuel additive products that considerably reduce wear and tear of mechanical equipment (think factory machines, car engines) as well as increases efficiency and reduces the emission of particulate pollutants, and we are slowly but surely gearing up for a collaborative effort with the Growing Club.
For Jilcat, we have set up a referral program where clients they sell their products to can turn to CCC to help them develop and generate emissions reductions projects from using Jilcats additives, while similarly, we will direct our clients and partners, where applicable to Jilcat’s superior products. The Growing Club is a small but particularly effective operation for regenerating deadened soils and turning them into lush environments in which individuals can create landscapes that provide nourishment, healthy habitats for plants and animals alike, and which are also extremely good at sequestering carbon.

Thus, after this not-particularly-fantastic task of sitting and waiting in Los Angeles, I decided it was time to go out and get after closing more business and partnerships with fellow exhibitors in San Fran, rather than sit at my booth and have 45 minute long conversations a few times a day only to get a, “Ah, cool, thanks.” Because of this pivot there was a concurrent trade off with the LA show – more offsets, but less leads – I finished the SF show with considerably less offsets sold, but with over 50 real connections with industry professionals, individuals, business owners, and fantastic brands. It’s great to know we have something to offer to such a wealthy diversity of business models, and stories, and products. Not 3 weeks out from the festival, we are already working on solidifying the next round of clients and partnerships.
Additionally, CCC and the Green Festivals made good on our commitment to making our work more visible, accessible and enticing by creating packages for individuals and attendees to offset their attendance on Carbon Credit Capital’s online credit store, which was linked to from GFE’s compliance email that went to all exhibitors. There were even a few of these packages purchased by individuals post festival – getting us one step closer to complete online integration. It now seems that come the first shows in 2017, we will combine these packages and Green Festival’s current mention of our efforts, with a closer iteration, if not a true integration of our carbon insetting program.
The last update – literally it was the last day of the Festival: I was given a speaking slot on Sunday morning to discuss, it seems, really whatever I pleased, but due to the fact that I was there on business and supposed to be representing our brand, I figured I would talk about carbon credits. It occurred to me after LA that a lot of people really didn’t have a good understanding of just how your carbon footprint breaks down as an individual, and how your individual footprint plays a part in the 35 billion tonnes of CO2e we emit as a planet every year. I did this specifically, because when I was trying to get individuals to pay $0.05 (might not be an easy amount to come up with – I personally don’t like nickels – but five cents, that’s it) I would often get, “Oh I’m already carbon neutral – I’m vegan!” or, “I don’t have a car, so no carbon footprint really for me to do anything about, thanks though!” Now I don’t know if these people just didn’t care at all and didn’t want to talk to me, and were ‘pulling my leg,’ or if they really thought that because they didn’t eat meat, they were some sort of climate anomaly who had somehow purged themselves of all environmental impact, so I decided to speak on that. I really learned a lot myself about the carbon intensity of various diets, habits of consumption, modes of transport, and forms of energy. Turns out if you’re a vegan who walks everywhere, and has solar panels on your roof, and have the waste footprint equivalent to someone in sub-Saharan Africa, then you still have a carbon footprint of about 3.75 metric tonnes (over 8,000 lbs of gas think about how light-weight gas is, and how much you have to put out in order to create that much in weight – that you’re emitting every year) per year, which is only slightly less than the global average. The bottom line of the presentation was that even if the entire world is basically as green as you can get, we only reduce our footprint by 15 or so percent, and that there is a real need for offsets and the work that we do in the meantime.
We will not be in Portland physically next week, but we will be there digitally, so if you’re reading this, and you’re going to Portland, even though it’s a free show – offset your footprint and help make it carbon neutral, because regardless of what you pay, or don’t pay, to get in, the footprint remains unless we do something about it!
&nbsp;
By Pianpian Wang
One afternoon, while we were taking a break and looked out onto the street in SOHO through the big office glass window, something captured our attention.

There was a bright yellow street food vendor truck of Nathan’s Famous parked along Broadway with one solar panel installed on the top of the truck.

Interesting!
We decided to have a little talk to the vendor guy to learn more.
“I can roughly save $50 per day with solar energy”
Every day, winter or summer, Maged works from 9am to 9 pm to make and sell Nathan’s Famous hot dogs. During the day, the single solar panel on the top can power the whole food truck for 8 hours, and at night he needs to charge the food truck at the garage, which can provide his truck another 8 hours of power.
He told us that Nathan’s Famous (Nathan’s), the internationally acclaimed hot dog franchise with Coney Island, Brooklyn roots, has worked with MOVE Systems, an innovator in the mobile food industry, to deploy 100 Nathan’s food trucks throughout New York City. One of these 100 eco-friendly carts is run by Maged.
“MOVE Systems taught us how to use the truck, including how to get the cart charged, how to operate using the solar energy and so on. Nathan’s trains us how to make food and how to serve customers.” Maged said.
When we asked him if the solar energy saves money, Maged firmly answered “Oh, absolutely! I can roughly save around $50 per day, which is very important to small businesses like us.”
Vendors Use Clean Energy to Improve the Environment
New York City has had food vendors with a long history, and the food variety has also varied from oysters to hot dogs to halal goat. To promote the unique street food culture as well as develop job opportunities, in 2015 the City Council has advanced a bill to more than double the number of food vendors in New York from the current 3,100 within the following years.
Too many food trucks could create an unpleasant environment, which does not sound as attractive as the food. Their generators, plus charcoal, are the least efficient way to create power, heat and contribute to carbon emissions. Therefore, there is some room for green energy kicking in.
Besides Nathan’s, the government of New York City has been working on adopting cleaner carts elsewhere. Instead of using diesel and propane, the cart’s electricity and heating comes from a rectangular rooftop solar panel and a rechargeable battery pack. If needed, a generator filled with compressed natural gas can provide back-up power. Cities like Los Angeles, Chicago and Austin are also developing similar programs to promote green vendor food trucks.
Everyone’s Green Mission

Businesses, whether as small as independent street vendors or as big as Nathan’s, are going green. Yet remember, clean energy is only one of the ways to reduce carbon emissions. We can help customize a way to help your business, small or big, to mitigate your carbon footprint and build a stronger, environmentally-friendly brand.
While we were waiting for talking to Maged, we wanted to see if customers noticed this cool installation, so we asked several patrons who were lining up to buy Maged’s hot dogs. None of them noticed the cart is different from the traditional type. “I usually get my food, pay and leave,” one lady said to me with a surprised smile after we showed her the solar panel. “But it is very nice and I feel good when I buy the food,” she continued, and another customer next to her nodded.
It seems more food carts using renewable energy will hit the road in the near future. Next time when you go to a street vendor, you may want to look up and check if the cart has a solar panel on top, so that you know your favorite meal is prepared in a more sustainable way.
Here are the reasons that you should not miss Before the Flood:

Leo Leibovitch, Project Director
&#8220;It is amazing to me how a scientific phenomenon increasingly translates into a very tangible human impact. Mankind as a whole is affected by climate change more and more, as it touches upon so many aspects of people&#8217;s day-to-day lives &#8212; not just on some abstract macro- or global level &#8212; but here and now.&#8221;
Alis Arditi, Business Development
“Even I do work in this field, I realized how much I don’t know about it in this documentary. I learned a lot and I have a lot to learn. Every scene of the movie has impacted me but I will highlight some of them.
The fact that global warming or climate change was known for decades but was not a concerned subject until few years makes me frustrated
. We could have done something and avoid catastrophes.
In the scene at the Canadian Arctic when Leo and the explorer where looking to narwhals swimming, the explorer said, “I don’t want to be in a planet without these animals.” I don’t want that either; I don’t want to show the animals that I have seen to the next generations in the museums.
One of the facts told in the documentary was that, 1 citizen of US electricity consumption at home equals to 2.2 citizens in Japan, 10 citizens in China, 34 citizens in India and 61 citizens in Nigeria. People in the US are consuming more and it’s a fact that they will not change their lifestyle to emit less. It’s obvious that no one will change their life style but each of the people can do a small thing, change their energy to renewables or buy carbon credits to reduce their overall emissions.”
Pianpian Wang, Legal and Policy
“It is difficult to ignore those orangutan’s eyes that survived in a huge forest fire brought by climate change effects. They are innocent but have to suffer from losing home and habitats, together with other species. Human beings are not the only species existed in the world, but we always forget that.”

Reed Shapiro, Director of Business Development
“There was an interesting scene detailing the first published science on climate change as early as the 1950&#8217;s. This is an issue that grew as a needle in a haystack of other issues. It went from nothing, to being associated with hippies, gained notoriety in the 80&#8217;s during the ozone crisis, the science matured in the &#8217;90s through today, and only now is it becoming more of a mainstream issue &#8211; it was hardly covered in the US elections (most likely for purposes of remaining popular amongst a divided electorate). It&#8217;s taken us 60+ years to wake up, but we still have to get out of bed, take a shower, put clothes on, commute and get to work &#8211; the dial hasn&#8217;t moved in any way that matters.”
Yuanrong Zhou, Carbon Accounting Analyst
“Whether you see it or not, the environment and climate on Earth is changing &#8211; this is undeniable. It is time for us all to make efforts to prevent any further irreversible changes.”
Olivia Fussell, President of Carbon Credit Capital
“I was moved to DO SOMETHING.”
&nbsp;
Ladies and gentlemen, the wolf of climate change is at the door!

Carbon Credit Capital, an innovative carbon offset management firm located in New York recently established a partnership with Jilcat Industrial Marketing Group (JIMG), a service provider located in Nevada offering the full line of Jilcat 85 Proline Ultra Friction Reducing products manufactured by Petron Plus.
With over 35 years of proven and tested performance in military, government and Fortune 100 company applications demonstrating reduced fuel, energy , emissions and waste, JIMG has shown clients how they can reduce the operating costs of their auto, truck, or mechanical manufacturing equipment.
As an active player in domestic and international voluntary market since 2006, Carbon Credit Capital has consistently engaged with the business sector to identify and refine carbon emissions reduction solutions. JIMG’s products will serve as a qualified option when Carbon Credit Capital clients are in need of achieving reductions in emissions via reduced fuel consumption and superior lubrication for more efficient performance.
Meanwhile, to further enhance JIMG clients’ sustainability, Carbon Credit Capital will provide customized carbon emissions mitigation solutions to JIMG clients, including but not limited to:

Low-carbon project development in the form of certifying emissions reductions from use of Jilcat 85 Proline products in efforts to earn verified, issued carbon credits from their use of Jilcat’s products
Use of issued carbon credits for application to their own products and services (i.e. certification of either reduced emissions, or partial carbon neutrality via the Carbon Neutral Checkout™ program)


“This is a great partnership for two reasons. First, we will act as a springboard for the adoption of Jilcat’s industrial products within our own networks and clientele, which will generate considerable cost savings for those bodies,” said Reed Shapiro, Director of Business Development at Carbon Credit Capital. “Second, we now have the capacity to assist Jilcat’s clients in earning more recognition for their use of Jilcat’s 85 Proline products, to the tune of generating revenues from verified emissions reductions. The bottom line here is both companies now have a wider network, surer paths to ensuring real emissions reductions are generated at an industrial scale, and a means of communicating to the world that emissions reductions can in fact spur economic growth, where the opposite is too often implied.” He added.
Charles Grix, President of Jilcat Industrial Marketing Group Inc. expressed that “We are excited to be partnering with Carbon Capital Credit. Through this partnership we will be able to provide business with a complete program that can improve their profit and at the same time help them make a positive impact on the environment.”
The partnership between the two companies ensures that our clients who want to achieve authentic sustainable development can do so both with physical applications, as well as valuable ER certifications.
By Leo Leibovitch
Carbon Credit Capital was invited to attend several highlighted events during the Climate Week NYC 2016. On behalf of Carbon Credit Capital, Leo Leibovitch, our Project Director attended those events and here are some observations during the Climate Week.

The Climate Week NYC 2016 was distinguished by a set of events featuring prominent panelists, well represented both by private as well as public sector, engaged in discussing the pertinent issues related to climate change in today&#8217;s world. A broad, but insightful general conversation brought about some clear takeaways and calls for leadership from all actors in order to achieve tangible results for a cleaner, greener planet. Climate Week was inspiring in that it brought together people from all sectors who share the same aim: driving climate action, and driving it now.
The Paris Climate Agreement reached in 2015 has invigorated the industry participants, and a clear positive momentum was enthusiastically felt “in the air.” However, now is the time for continuous, specific actions that will cement and build upon that agreement. We all need to “walk the talk.” Currently, 191 countries have signed the Paris Agreement. This is a huge milestone, representing the first time that developed and developing nations from around the world agreed to limit global warming to below 2 degrees Celsius. Next comes the ratification. To date, over 55 countries representing 55% of global emissions have ratified it, and the Agreement will enter into force on November 4, 2016, right before the next UN climate conference, COP22, in Marrakesh. Its participants now have to concentrate on real, tangible actions and engage in building the momentum for implementation.
For this to happen, government policies on various levels must be clear, transparent, fixed for long-term, and decoupled from election cycle dependencies. Sub-national governments, corporations and institutions are not waiting for the green light from global leaders to act. A few regions are already leading such efforts, by introducing fixed Carbon Tax, or further promoting existing cap-and-trade regulations in place. These policies, in turn, enable businesses to align their strategy and planning with their increasingly important sustainability goals.

Hope turns to action around climate change as activities are accelerating at an impressive pace. Here are several takeaways that emerged from the most recent Climate Week events:
Early-Mover Businesses See Clear Advantages in a Low-Carbon Future
The business case for sustainability is clear: the private sector, along with the governments are making a global commitment to have The Paris Agreement eventually lead to a carbon-free or net-zero emissions world. Rising energy prices and extreme weather events (such as the very recent, devastating Hurricane Matthew) pose significant and increasingly recognizable risks to the business and civic communities alike.
However, being climate-conscious is about more than risk mitigation. The CDP estimated that businesses actively dealing with climate-related issues benefit from returns on investment 18% higher than those that do not. Kurt Vogt from HSBC claimed that sustainability is the “investment opportunity of the future,” citing green bonds as one example. There are many new emerging or improving products, services, and markets; the potential business opportunities associated with addressing climate change can be very significant.
Along those lines, many companies took advantage of the Climate Week platform to draw attention to their climate leadership. Bank of America and Apple stated their commitment to running on 100% renewable power. Philips is planning to reach a net-zero carbon footprint by 2020, Siemens – by 2030.
Governments Lead the Way to Green Progress
Leadership is about more than a global commitment, and it was good  to see signs of reassurance and enthusiasm for upcoming action on climate change from many parts of the world. US Secretary of Energy, Dr. Ernest Moniz, confirmed continued American leadership on climate, highlighting the nexus of clean energy deployment, energy access, and economic growth in the United States and globally. Morocco&#8217;s Minister Delegate in Charge of Environment, Hakima El Haite gave a heartening and inspiring speech calling for a swift shift from negotiation to action in light of hosting the upcoming COP22.
Quebec and Ontario prominently showcased their collaboration with California on cap-and-trade under the Western Climate Initiative, the former highlighting some innovative ways the proceeds from the program were being put to use to promote sustainability initiatives in the province. Mexico also appears to have big plans to potentially join the North America’s growing carbon market.
Collaboration and Innovation Are Key to Unlocking Our Low-Carbon Future
Increasingly banking on the bottom-up approach to solve climate issues, partnerships and collaboration are emerging in every part of the world. Some of these are the Compact of States and Regions, the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, the Alliance for a Sustainable Future, and the Under2MoU, to name a few. Powerful private and public-sector players are joining forces, as they seem to recognize that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. By sharing information and working together on solutions, together they can scale-up to move more quickly and efficiently on climate change, which, in turn, helps drive innovation.
As climate-friendly practices are increasingly becoming the new business as usual, this hopefulness was echoed in New York, with Jonathan Pershing, Climate Special Envoy, US State Department, stating: “What is next for innovation? Real business opportunities and real social benefits. And hold onto your seats because it is coming fast, which is a good thing because it is crucial to solving the climate problem.”
Where is the Money: The Finance Industry is Buying In
Top financial institutions had a strong presence at Climate Week. There seems to be a universal understanding of the need to mobilize and accelerate enormous amounts of capital to deploy clean technologies while divesting away from carbon-intensive entities, enhance our infrastructure, and improve the productivity of all aspects of our global economy. The World Bank, IFC, YES Bank of India spoke of the potential to unlock billions to trillions of dollars in green investments, all carrying direct environmental benefits as well as significant positive social and economic impact.

Recognizing the opportunity, many corporate players are stepping up their commitments to fight climate change by introducing or reaffirming their goals towards becoming 100% carbon neutral, as announced by the major financial, technology, and manufacturing companies during these events. Carbon Credit Capital has always stood by such actions, as helping businesses to recognize and mitigate their carbon footprint has been at the front and center of the many services we offer.
During Climate Week I took part in important discussions about public-private funding mechanisms for scaling low-carbon innovation, measuring and standardizing green mechanisms, and developing climate-friendly investment portfolios, among other topics.  After over 10 years in the environmental finance field, I have never felt more invigorated than I do now. All aspects of it are coming together nicely and momentum is building across governments and the corporate sector in a way that feels that we are finally moving beyond words to real, concrete actions. I am genuinely happy to be part of this.
&nbsp;
By Alis Arditi and Pianpian Wang
Standing on the 6th floor balcony of the Singer Building located in SOHO, New York, Olivia looks at the crowd while she says, “I love this neighborhood. It is always full of surprises and changes, and it is exactly how I feel in the field of environmental issues.”

Real Estate Career
Olivia has been active in the environmental space since 2006, yet she was not engaged with the field at the beginning.
After graduating from Harvard, Olivia was offered a job in New York City as a real estate developer and she decided to take the chance as she thought it was a great opportunity for her career. She started to work on the development of a 7 million square foot waterfront property, and then became the construction manager of other projects because of her outstanding performance. Later, Olivia came to own her real estate development management company after some years of experience. During that time, Olivia’s story has appeared in many news articles, because the real estate industry was considered men’s business, yet she made great achievements as a businesswoman.
Being successful and aggressive was the tone in the real estate industry. People were chasing each other on how to boost the value of a property and then sell it for building a taller and bigger one. In this context, it was difficult to be proactive on environmental issues. “My gut told me that it is not right. Our natural resources are limited, including the land. I was telling myself that we needed to do the real estate business in a more sustainable way,” Olivia said and she did turn the thought into actions.
She went to Columbia University to attend a Master program on Environmental Policy Finance and Economics. After graduating, Olivia worked as an advisor on carbon sequestration projects in Africa as a part of her research for the University. “Many people found it was unbelievable that I grew up in Central East Africa and had lived there for 10 years.” Olivia points out the area on the map while she is talking. “I had a wonderful childhood when I was there. Abundant sunshine and lots of animals are the most unforgettable things to me,” she added.
The Environmental Field:  New Adventure
While Olivia was back to Africa for the carbon sequestration projects, she found that droughts were severe in many parts of Africa, mainly on the eastern and southern side of the continent. Several inland lakes that played an important role in supporting local people’s daily life have dried up, which posed severe impacts on communities that lived around the lakes.
[pullquote align=right]
“If there is one thing that got me through till this day, I think it is the love for our Mother Nature. It is human instinct and you cannot avoid it.”
[/pullquote]
Local people thought the droughts were just a bad luck of the year, yet Olivia assumed that the droughts had likely resulted from carbon emissions due to environment degradation, even though the 5th IPCC report has not yet existed at that time. “If we restored the balance of the environment, then we could find the key to solve the real problem.” Therefore, she firmly believed that carbon sequestration would be a way to mitigate the severe situation in Africa.
During Olivia’s stay in Africa, she helped develop carbon sequestration projects, such as planting trees, and other programs that reduced carbon emissions. Olivia affirmed that there would be a possible market for carbon sequestration in Africa that would help eventually grow the economy.

In 2006, Olivia founded Carbon Credit Capital with focus on supporting low carbon project development, after she came back from Africa. “It was a brand new field to the world and there were not many companies like us at that time.” Carbon Credit Capital has been active in the voluntary market since it was born. No governmental incentives, little knowledge that the public had, were the main barriers that the business had to tackle. When she was asked about the challenges at the early stage of establishing the company, Olivia smiled, “it certainly had some and we still face a lot, but you would never get bored in this field and you learn new things every day.” Indeed, ten years later, the concepts of carbon markets and carbon credits have obtained more and more attention. The emergence of the California cap-and-trade and other carbon trading systems in the world also implied that a new era of carbon pricing is forming.
Ugastove Project and Her Goal
Among the low carbon projects listed on Carbon Credit Capital’s portfolio, a project called Ugastove Efficient Cook Stoves can capture your attention easily. “This project is in Uganda,” Olivia said. “Believe it or not, people in Africa still use very outdated cooking tools. They wanted to get rid of hunger, but they ignored that the poor situation with indoor pollution generated from the outdated facilities can cause more people’s death. People need help there.”
Olivia’s parents had a great deal of respect for the countryside when they lived in Africa. She has deep attachment to the land, the nature, the animals, and the people. “If there is one thing that got me through till this day, I think it is the love for our Mother Nature. It is human instinct and you cannot avoid it.”
&nbsp;
By Reed Shapiro
Carbon Credit Capital participated the Green Festival Expo in Los Angeles as a highlighted service partner about two weeks ago. Reed Shapiro, Carbon Credit Capital&#8217;s Director of Business Development, was the key of cultivating the partnership and attended the Expo as our representative. We invited him to share some thoughts of the Expo.
&nbsp;
&nbsp;

Starting a new project, having a new experience, meeting new people – are all often surprising, fun, exciting, and even stressful. I can say with honesty each one of those identifiers can be applied to my most recent foray into the world of exhibiting at trade shows at the Green Festival Expo in Los Angeles just one week ago.
Months of pitching, negotiating, and logistical planning between Green Festivals, Inc. and myself as well as between myself and the rest of the Carbon Credit Capital team, finally culminated in my trip out west. We set lofty goals, such as offsetting the entire 3-day expo to make the entire event net-carbon neutral, and decided upon innovative and interesting modes of getting it all done. While I had hoped (and while I still do) to integrate the price to offset each individual’s attendance into the price of the ticket they bought at checkout (an iteration of our Carbon Neutral Checkout™ carbon pricing model), the commonly agreed upon method was to set up an “Offset Box” where individuals could make contributions to a grand total in order to nullify the carbon emissions from their traveling to the festival, regardless of whether they walked, biked, rode public transit, drove, or flew, as well as their walking around, taking literature, and sampling products.
After somehow sneaking my arguably oversized carry-on baggage onto my connecting flights, it was time to put the Box to the test. Both Friday and Saturday brought to my attention that not only is there a considerable education gap when it comes to the general public understanding what a carbon credit is, there was also a false impression within attendees that we were a credit card company! Nevertheless, I was able to have some very interesting conversations with some even more interesting characters, and was able to get a fair amount of attendees to offset their attendance, as well as portions of their own carbon footprint.
The Festival, while perhaps not as busy as expected, was certainly alive and bustling by Sunday. There is also something to be said about having two previous days of experience by Sunday morning, which enabled me to be much more unabashed when trying to get attendees attentions. Let’s just say it is not exactly a walk in the park to get hordes of people who would otherwise walk right past you to stop and take a minute to have a conversation, when they had come to the festival really just to look around and possibly buy some eco-friendly soap.

The festival as a whole as a very interesting experience, between the businesses owners I met and networked with, as well as the throngs of people both willing and unwilling to learn about the environmental mitigation method that is carbon offsetting. Our partnership with the Green Festivals is certainly one which we will continue to develop, and upon which we will improve to offer both Festival attendees and exhibitors a seamless way to reduce or eliminate their carbon impacts, whether associated with the Festival, or in general.
With that all being said, let’s get to some stats: we have calculated the carbon footprint of the Green Festival at the LA Convention Center to have emitted about 65 metric tonnes of Carbon Dioxide (or it’s equivalent in other gasses). The Offset Box was able to generate enough cash to offset all of the Festival’s energy and fuel usage (Scope 1 and 2 emissions). While we were hoping to make the entire festival neutral – encompassing electricity, fuel, incoming and outbound travel (for exhibitors and attendees), food, waste – this is a legitimate accomplishment, considering there are some companies and corporations who boast carbon neutrality for only offsetting their Scope 1 emissions! Furthermore, we were able to get the equivalent of about 1,500 attendees to offset their personal attendance, which is similarly no small statistic.

It is clear there is an appetite amongst business owners and consumers alike to take responsibility for their environmental impacts and more importantly take action. It is now up to CCC and GFE to spend time making these options much more available, clear cut, and executable to the same parties. Looking ahead to San Francisco in mid-November, I fully expect we will be able to get this option to offset attendance online at checkout when buying tickets. I imagine this will make it much more conducive for all to offset in the moment, as opposed to being confronted with this option days and even weeks after your purchase.
Until then keep a look out for updates on our website, in our newsletters, and on our social media to make sure you are informed about the latest developments in this bourgeoning partnership, and I will make sure we keep raising the bar for you and yours!
Climate Week NYC, as the most well-recognized climate event in the United States, is coming up.

This year, Carbon Credit Capital has been invited to participate in some events. Check out the below events for locations and dates. We would like to meet you there and talk about carbon related issues:

Getting Carbon Price Right, organized by World Bank
Translating Paris Agreement into Business Strategies, organized by Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)
Paris Agreement: The Role of Business in Climate Finance and a New Paradigm for Voluntary Offsetting, organized by Gold Standard
Carbon Accounting: Calculate, Reduce, Offset, and Disclose your CO2 Emissions, organized by CO2logic

&nbsp;
We are proud to announce that Carbon Credit Capital is officially a service partner of Green Festivals, Inc.!

As America’s largest and longest-running sustainability &amp; green-living event, the Green Festival Expo serves as a platform to bring together the world’s most trusted companies, innovative brands, national and local businesses, pioneering thinkers and conscious consumers in one place to promote green products and services, and where people go to learn how to live healthier, more sustainable lives.

The successful partnership is a product of Carbon Credit Capital’s sharing these same values with the Green Festivals and commitment to helping businesses develop sustainable products and operations as well as offering innovative, low carbon consulting services since 2006. Our consistency in actively developing high-quality materials and distributing them for free, in order to educate individuals and help them go green also, caught the attention of the Green Festivals.
Carbon emissions, the main cause of climate change, are present in everything we do. The Green Festival Expo recognizes they are no different, and with Carbon Credit Capital’s help will offer attendees of the festival, as well as speakers and exhibitors, the chance to offset their portion of the festivals emissions. Together, service providers, retail brands, and the consumers they serve will now have an opportunity to make every Green Festival completely carbon neutral!
Find us in booth 313 at the Green Festival at the LA Convention Center, South Hall K, on Sep. 16 – 18, and be sure to offset your attendance!
Tickets and More Info Here: http://www.greenfestivals.org/los-angeles-2016-sep-16-18.html#!5
Be on the look out on our social media pages for free tickets and discounted rates!

&nbsp;
&nbsp;
As a consumer, you may wonder about a product’s origin when you taste a cup of coffee with a fair trade logo, or when you see a garment with a beautiful hand-embroidered pattern. When product information becomes more readily available, you know more about the components that make up the product, as well as its environmental impact from production.

In recent years, companies have started using labels to disclose more information about their products, such as organic, non-GMO, fair trade, or even Carbon Credit Capital’s own carbon neutral product label and certification. Product labeling not only bridges the information gap between consumers and products, but also helps increase the quality of interaction between the consumers and the companies.

According to a recent study, conducted by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), consumers are willing to purchase carbon offsets in order to lessen their purchases negative impacts, choose products with less carbon outputs, and make climate-friendly selections when the options are available to them.cProviding a“carbon neutral”product and product label delivers a message to your consumers that your products are eco-friendly and have zero carbon impact and helps you make a strong statement as a brand.
&nbsp;
By Wildon Kaplan
The islands of the Bahamas are many times called the “isles of perpetual June”. Millions of tourists are attracted to the country for its year-long balmy weather and crystal clear water.Thanks to its abundance of natural beauty, tourism has become the backbone of the Bahamian economy since the mid 20th century. However, global climate change and environmental degradation pose significant risks to the country both economically and environmentally.Given that Wildon, one of our summer interns, grew up on New Providence Island, we invited him to share some thoughts from his recent trip to the Bahamas. Wildon said that he would like to see sustainable development better integrated into the Bahamian economy.

Threats to the Bahamas
Climate change has caused both sea levels and ocean temperatures to rise in the Bahamas. According to Prime Minister Perry Christie, 80% of Bahamian land could be lost to rising sea levels by the end of the century.This trend is not only seen in the Bahamas, but in other low-laying island nations. In addition, Bahamian waters have already experienced an increase in sea surface temperature (SST). These increases could lead to habitat loss food chain distribution for Bahamian marine life. Furthermore, changes in global weather patterns could make the Bahamas more susceptible to stronger, and deadlier hurricanes.
In addition to the effects of climate change, environmental degradation is a severe problem throughout the Bahamas. Many of the country’s coral reefs have already faced damage, or even complete destruction from increased boat traffic, real estate development, and pollutants. Ocean pollution, in the form of oil spills, garbage, and industrial runoff needs to be addressed. These pollutants pose a great threat to marine life in the country, both for the tourism and commercial fishing industries.Invasive species, particularly the arrival of poisonous Lion Fish to Bahamian waters, poses a grave threat to both native fish stocks,tourists, and Bahamians’ health.
Unlike the Bahamas, Cuba, a small island country facing similar challenges, its tourism industry has implemented some nation-wide sustainable programs and marketed the island as a sustainable destination for many years. Even before the lifting of many restrictions on Cuban travel for Americans, Lonely Planet called Cuba an “ecotastic” destination. Since 1997, the Cuban government has been actively promoting a sustainable tourism model through the “Ley del MedioAmbiente de la República de Cuba”, a law which calls for the legal promotion of eco-tourism, and sustainable practices within the tourism industry. For example, Cuba’s coral reefs are some of the most intact and healthy in the Caribbean, given the Cuban government’s creation of a vast network of national parks in the country. These parks not only encompass coastal areas, but also large swaths of Cuba’s forests. Currently, the island has 6 UNESCO Biosphere Reserves.
With the eventual opening of the Cuban market to American tourists, I am fearful that the Bahamas will lose a significant market share of American tourists (the largest visitor group to the country) to a “greener” and cheaper Cuba. Thus, it is in the country’s best interests to address the problems associated with  climate change and environmental degradation in the Bahamas.
The Green Potential
In 2015, the Bahamas Ministry of Tourism embarked on an extensive study of how to make the country a more “sustainable” destination.  According to Joy Jibrilu, the Director General for Tourism, “The Bahamas must ensure that tourism not only acts as an economic activity that generates jobs, but tourism must also serve as a catalyst to attaining strategic objectives such as community development, cultural preservation, environmental sustainability and social inclusion”. Thus, it is clear that the government would like to see the Bahamas progress on a more sustainable model of economic development to preserve both nations’ tourism industry, and the country’s natural beauty.
Hopefully, Prime Minister Christie’s government will be able to utilize more green policies to follow up with this study and tackle many of the country’s environmental challenges.However, I also believe that Bahamian businesses need to be deeply involved in sustainable development instead of asking the government to face these challenges alone.
On a recent site visit to the Bahamas, as a representative of Carbon Credit Capital, I was fortunate enough to meet with business owners both in Nassau and in the Family Islands, as well as an executive from the Ministry of Tourism. By meeting with Bahamians both in the public and private sectors, I was able to get a very clear picture of the will and need for sustainable economic practices in the Bahamian economy.
The first stop on my site visit was Harbour Island, one of the Bahamian Family Islands, with an economy based on high-end tourism. As a “you-cannot-miss” tourist destination, Harbour Island is marketed on the island’s natural beauty, such as its pink sand beaches, clear water, and nearly car-free roads (many residents and visitors use golf carts to travel around the island). There, I visited a plethora of small shops, hotels, and restaurants to gauge the need and interest for voluntary carbon offsetting programs, environmental consultancy, and environmental finance services. Within hours of being on Harbour Island, it was clear that there is high growth potential for green business practices on the island. One restaurant owner who I met with had a strong interest in “going green” either through voluntary offsets or through implementing other green initiatives.From our conversation, it seems that local businesses clearly understood that the importance of implementing sustainability initiatives, which would improve their branding value. However, the businesses also lack the access to knowledge about how to implement such programs.
The similar challenge was also present in nation’s capital, Nassau. After visiting a diverse range of firms in the tourism/service industry, I found that like on Harbour Island, local businesses in Nassau were interested in sustainability initiatives, but did not know how to become more sustainable without significantly cutting into their profit margins. While non-Bahamian firms (like foreign cruise lines that service Nassau) have implemented sustainability initiatives with knowledge and technical support from their home countries, it is much harder for Bahamian companies in big or small-sized, to implement these programs, given the lack of Bahamian offsets projects and environmental consultancy firms.
For example, in the Bahamian airline industry, unlike most of the airlines that service the country, none of the Bahamian carriers have a voluntary carbon offset program. This is especially worrisome given that in many other Caribbean nations, local carriers have already implemented carbon offset programs that are comparable to ones used by larger European, American, Canadian, and Latin American airlines. For having a population of only roughly 375,000 people (13% of Jamaica’s total population and 3% of the population of the Dominican Republic), the Bahamas has many more airlines than a typical Caribbean nation, which suggests the country’s carbon output from air travel is above average for the Caribbean region. According to Carbon Credit Capital’s calculations, on an average flight between Nassau and Inagua (the farthest southern island in the Bahamas), a flight would produce 52 Kg Co2e of carbon per passenger. This number increases on international flights, with a passenger on a flight between New York and Nassau producing roughly 159 Kg Co2e.
Not the End
From my site visit, it is clear that Bahamian businesses want to “go green”, but a lack of local consultants and firms offering offset programs makes it difficult for them to implement effective, efficient, and economical sustainability solutions. Based on my observation, cost does not seem to be the biggest barrier in implementing sustainability initiatives in the Bahamas. In this context, it is time for the Bahamian to make their green will into reality.
Motivated by the mission of helping small and medium-sized companies (SMEs) to understand their carbon footprint and thus take actions towards carbon reduction, Carbon Credit Capital (CCC) recently partnered with the School of Chemical Engineering and Analytical Science (CEAS), The University of Manchester to advance its carbon accounting capacity.
&nbsp;

As the Head of Sustainable Industrial Systems and the Project Leader and Principle Investigator of carbon footprint measurement of the Industrial Sector, Prof. Adisa Azapagic had a conversation with CCC’s President, Olivia Fussell, focusing on the current situation of low carbon development among small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the United Kingdom and the United States. Please note that small and medium sized businesses constitute the majority of the business revenue base in the US at several trillion.
Currently, many SMEs, in the United States and globally, are showing more and more concerns regarding environmental and climate change issues. They also realize that their customers show a desire to be purchasing carbon neutral products.
However, due to limited resources, most  SMEs cannot afford to hire consulting firms, or to perform life cycle carbon inventories for their product(s). Thus, they don’t understand their carbon footprints and are not capable of developing low-carbon strategies. This is a barrier that places SMEs at a disadvantage regarding the looming challenge of carbon emissions.
In this context, CCC provides affordable carbon mitigation solutions as well as state-of-art carbon accounting services to educate and help SMEs who are dedicated to our shared environment. Prof. Azapagic affirmed CCC’s mission and values and showed interest and support for CCC’s carbon neutral programs.  Meanwhile, led by Prof. Azapagic, a team based in the CEAS, the University of Manchester, also devotes  well researched discipline on  refining carbon calculations for the corporate sectors globally.
With strong academic support and the use of well researched carbon emission factors, CCC will consistently fulfill its mission by offering credible and consistently accurate calculations to SMEs in the US and globally.
Cover image source: flexistore
The picturesque landscape below is the Jiuzhaigou Valley. Located in northern Sichuan province, China, the Jiuzhaigou Valley is counted as one of the most amazing places on Earth, even though the location is hardly known to outsiders.

A long time ago, there was a beautiful and kind Tibetan girl called Wonuo living in Jiuzhaigou. One goddess gave Wonuo a pair of golden bells as gift when she was born. Every time she rang the bells, the crisp ring turned to crystal clear creeks, and the land that was once barren and drought-ridden became full of life with abundant leafy trees.
One day, while Wonuo was sitting at the river bank to braid her hair, she encountered a young Tibetan man, named Geda, who was feeding his horse. Geda had adored Wonuo for a long time. Wonuo recognized Geda and was impressed by his braveness and intelligence. Both of them were glad to encounter each other again.
All of a sudden, dark clouds and thunder came, and a devil appeared with a strong wind and robbed Wonuo’s golden bells. The wind was so strong that it knocked Wonuo and Geda over. The devil forced Wonuo to marry him. Geda tried his best to fight the devil off, and Wonuo escaped to ask others to help Geda. After nine days and nights of battle, Geda and his fellows killed the devil and returned the golden bells were back to Wonuo.
After the battle, Geda and Wonuo decided to get married. On the wedding day, Wonuo happily rang her bells. Clouds of all different colors appeared and spring water gushed out from underground, forming beautiful lakes in various colors. The gods sent green trees, splendid flowers and various animals to Geda and Wonuo as wedding gifts. Since then, people have called Jiuzhaigou the magical wonderland.
Today, Sichuan Province has been using coal since the 1970s. In particular, coal is the major cooking fuel in rural homes. Burning coal indoors not only harms respiratory health in local households, but also pollutes the environment that Geda and Wonuo created.
Acid rain, for example, a result of excessive coal usage, can destroy the balance of underground spring water and lakes in Jiuzhaigou’s magical wonderland. Estimates suggest that the wonderland may disappear within as little as 20 years if we do not take any action.
Thankfully, a massive household biogas project has been implemented in Sichuan Province that encourages people to switch from using coal to clean energy. By installing a biogas digester (or a closed structure meant for capturing waste and the gas waste emits), the households can sweep the manure directly into the digester without any further contact, and further turn the manure into a cleaner, more convenient, fully renewable and less costly cooking fuel. Stored in the septic tank of the digester, both the risk of infections from decomposing manure and air pollution are greatly reduced.
The household biogas project has already reduced 872,577 tons of greenhouse gas emissions so far, as well as replaces coal usage in the local area. You can support the project implementation and operation by purchasing the carbon credits generated from the project.
Geda and Wonuo fought the devil to save their magical wonderland, and now it is our turn to protect this landscape!
Support the project here.
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
By Louisa Freeman
Louisa, our summer intern, recently became a vegetarian after learning she was contributing to climate change through her diet. Here is her story&#8230;

Meat has been a staple of my diet for as long as I can remember. It is present in both my German and American cultures, engrained in my traditions that have been passed on from generation to generation, and enjoyed in day-to-day life. Unfortunately, this craving has its price. The meat industry is greatly impacting the environment on which we depend. Thus, we consumers should take notice.
I would consider myself a strong environmental activist. I have traveled with my family my entire life and been to places on both sides of the spectrum. No matter where I am, I can’t help recognizing how certain cultures prioritize the environment. At school, I study sustainability, lead a club of student-athletes to promote sustainability initiatives, and work with our Athletic Department on sustainability-related projects. I’ve covered a broad range of topics, but meat was never one of them.

&nbsp;
It was not until I watched a documentary called Cowspiracy that I changed the way I ate. The documentary reveals the impact of the meat industry on the environment and reasons for the lack of attention on the subject. The facts were appalling. Here are just ten insights from the meat industry that made me feel as though I needed to change:

Animal agriculture is the leading cause of species extinction, ocean dead zones, water pollution and habitat destruction


Livestock and their byproducts account for at least 32,000 Million tons of carbon dioxide per year, or 51% of all worldwide greenhouse gas emission


Even without fossil fuels, we will exceed our 565 giga-tonnes CO2 limit by 2030…all from raising animals.


Livestock systems occupy 45% of the global surface area


Animal agriculture is responsible for up to 91% of Amazon destruction


For every 1 pound of fish caught, up to 5 pounds of unintended marine species are caught and discarded as by-kill


As many as 40% (63 billion pounds) of fish caught globally every year are discarded


A year of meatless Mondays saves 65,000 gallons of water


One hamburger requires 660 gallons of water
Each day, a person who eats a vegan diet saves 1,100 gallons of water, 45 pounds of grain, 30 square feet of forested land, 20 pounds of CO2 equivalent, and animal’s lives


Hard to believe? I thought so too. There’s a reason why this information isn’t as available to the public as much as the benefits of drinking a coke or eating chicken nuggets. But the facts are there. As the environmentalist I claimed to be, I couldn’t sit idly knowing I was contributing to an industry that is destroying our planet before our eyes. I learned that every individual can make an impact. Every individual has a choice. I made mine. Will you make yours?
Credit Capital’s newest video helps us understand the impact of the items we consume daily, while offering a viable solution that we should all consider.
Many Americans lose sight of their individual impact to the planet. Studies have shown that people in countries with high per-capita levels of carbon emissions are less intensely concerned about climate change. Even though we contribute to economies responsible for the greatest annual CO2 emissions, we are among the most likely to believe that the effects of climate change are long way off. Our lifestyles, habits and desires make us the heavy consumers we are. We lose sight of how our consumption patterns affect the livelihood of other people, species and wildlife.
It is noted that one carbon footprint is the total amount of greenhouse gases produced to directly and indirectly support human activities, usually expressed in equivalent metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO2e).
Enjoy!

Cubreme, a sustainable Argentinian clothing company, signed an agreement with Carbon Credit Capital to become a member of the Carbon Neutral Checkout™ Gold Program.


Cubreme, known for its commitment to promoting local economic growth and organic fibers, offers a line of clothing for men and women, accessories and items for home decoration.

Carbon Credit Capital has estimated that during 2015, Cubreme was responsible for 10.5 tCO2e (tonnes of CO2 equivalent) during their production cycle, with these emissions coming largely from manufacturing. Carbon Credit Capital, as a part of the Carbon Neutral Checkout™ Gold Program, estimated the carbon footprint of Cubreme’s products based on a Cradle-to-Gate Life Cycle Assessment. The calculations cover emissions from raw material acquisition, preprocessing, manufacturing, and onward distribution. In 2016 the estimated cost to offset a single item will be integrated into the price, making Cubreme’s sweater, scarf, foulard, hat and blanket line carbon neutral.

Cubreme has chosen ADPML Portel-Para REDD an “a-forestry” project in the Pará region of Brazil, which is helping to preserve Amazonian rainforest that is at risk of being deforested by squatters and cattle ranchers to offset their products’ carbon footprint. The project prevents the deforestation in the rainforest of an approximate area of 150,000 hectares. ADPML provides sustainable jobs, a trust fund for responsible economic development, and improves air quality with clean cook stoves for the local community. Moreover the project also benefits the well being of the wildlife in the Amazon. The project will prevent nearly 22.2 million tons of greenhouse gas emissions released to the atmosphere over the course of its lifetime.

Since Cubreme’s inception, it has focused on a triple impact: environmental, social and economic. Cubreme works to develop sustainable textiles from natural fibers from local producers, using old school methods of tailoring to enhance traditional Argentinian techniques and generate local jobs. The addition of their membership to the Carbon Neutral Checkout™ Gold Program only further solidifies them as an example of best practice in the industry, which will promote the use of renewable resources.

Cubreme Press Release Español

About Cubreme: 
Cubreme is a Certified B-Corporation that designs and manufactures a clothing line for men and women, accessories and decoration items for home with a variety of local, natural raw materials. The company supports a new vision for the textile industry with the use of local and sustainable raw materials such as animal and vegetable fibers. Cubreme acts as an example for other companies who wish to respect the environment and is willing to contribute to new sustainable initiatives, which now includes Carbon Neutral Checkout™, in an effort to provide carbon neutral clothes. Membership has made Cubreme a promising force for good in an industry with one of the largest quantities of CO2e emissions in the world.
www.cubreme.com
&nbsp;
By Pianpian Wang
It is scientifically confirmed that greenhouse gases have led to, and will lead to further warming of the global temperature, and that these same greenhouse gases (GHGs) are emitted by human activities. However, many people have a difficult time fully understanding GHGs’ negative effects. Unlike other air pollutants such as Sulfur Dioxide (SO2), which contributes to acid rain, GHGs are colorless, invisible and have no smell. One of the main GHGs, Carbon Dioxide (CO2), is even a part of the air that we breathe every day.


Although people understandably haven’t showed much concern to GHGs (perhaps because of GHGs invisible and inherent role in our daily lives), there is no longer room for inaction when it comes to limiting the amount of greenhouse gas humans emit. The warming temperature of earth that is driven by GHGs could devastate our water sources and food-production, damage and destabilize global ecosystems ecosystem, such as rainforests or oceans, and even destroy our social and financial mechanisms leading to health and financial crises. Positive collective action is urgently needed.
Governments and Fortune 500 companies have strategies and plans in place to reduce GHGs, yet the public, including you (the one who is reading this article), the strongest and most powerful sector of society, has to fully involved with reducing your carbon emissions, as we explain in our article on Small and Medium sized enterprises’ role in combatting climate change. Millions of drops of water make up the ocean. Similarly, large numbers of small contributions can form a huge change that can be even more effective than the Fortune 500’s efforts! While GHGs might be invisible, carbon offset projects are very visible and we invite you to be a part of the solution to climate change by contributing to the further development of carbon reduction efforts globally.
Carbon offsets, or carbon credits, are all generated from projects that follow strict regulatory standards and which are designed and implemented to create more job opportunities, improve people’s health and protect the environment.  These low-carbon sustainable projects are a concrete way to make mitigation seen, in a way that can bring more benefits to people and the environment.
You may wonder, “how many credits should I purchase?” It depends carbon output you generate every year. You would be surprised to know that a household of 3-5 can emit 3.25 metric tons (over 7,000 lbs) of CO2 equivalent per month, in order words, almost 86,000 pounds of carbon pollution will be emitted by a single family into the air every year. With our Family Offset Package, you can support a project that can eliminate your carbon output.
In our new Credit Store, you will find a variety of carbon offset projects, and packages, just like you are shopping clothes at stores. Whether you are an individual, a family, or a business owner, purchasing a package that matches your daily life provides a visible solution to the invisible problem that is climate change.
Reed Shapiro, Carbon Credit Capital’s Director of Business Development was invited to speak at GreenHomeNYC’s annual Green Catwalk in January 2016.

Rooted in an attempt to address how the world can keep warming caused by industrial activity since the Industrial Revolution below 2°C, Reed introduced the urgent situation that the whole world is facing regarding GHG emissions mitigation and the importance of moving towards carbon neutrality on a planetary scale. Among all the sectors, the building industry contributes about 40% to the annual GHGs emissions in the United States, which also means that it has lots of potential for mitigation.
In order to reduce carbon emissions from buildings, measures such as adopting renewable energies, low-carbon design and utilizing low-carbon building materials have already been taken. Although these measures have brought some positive impacts, after taking a closer look at them, Reed found that there is a huge mismatch between these solutions’ effectiveness and what needs to be done to reach the goal of staying below 2°C within a limited time frame.
Nevertheless, Reed also pointed out that energy sourcing and use, low-carbon building materials and industrial processes (manufacture and construction) do share the commonality in potential mitigation via carbon offsets. Check out the full speech below.

About GreenHomeNYC:
A community-oriented, volunteer-run organization, GreenHomeNYC’s mission is to facilitate the adoption of sustainable building methods and materials by owners of small and mid-size residential and commercial buildings in New York City. GreenHomeNYC aims to be a hub of resources for small building owners, to promote the understanding of green building issues, and to connect building owners with local green building service and materials providers.
Carbon Credit Capital, LLC (“CCC”) conducted a survey on eco-consumerism through several social media channels (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter and in-person polling), aiming to explore the behavioral willingness of social media users and consumers to purchase environmentally friendly products.

Focused as a company on educating and encouraging consumers to understand and mitigate their carbon footprints, the questions CCC poses give thought as to how much carbon is associated with the products they consume daily. As the concept of carbon pricing continues to be a contentious issue, CCC has taken initiative to understand whether or not consumers are open to the manifestation of carbon pricing in reality. Questions such as, “What is the likelihood of purchasing a carbon neutral/environmentally friendly product over a normal product, regardless of the price,” or, “How much more would you be willing to spend on a carbon neutral, or environmentally friendly product,” etc. were posed to consumers in the hopes of delivering any sort of trend.

&nbsp;
While consumers show willingness to purchase carbon neutral or environmentally friendly products, results show the public does not have very many options when shopping for such products. 50% of respondents have had either little or no opportunity to purchase environmentally friendly, or carbon neutral products. Baby-Boomer social media users have the greatest difficulty in finding options, and opportunities to purchase environmentally friendly products, with 36% saying they “Never” have options to make such purchases, while a further 18%, when asked how frequently they face such opportunities say, “Not very often.”
The public is clearly eager to have more options when making purchases, as well as pertinent information about the products and services that they purchase. It seems businesses who intend to do provide carbon neutral or environmentally friendly products will meet sincere demand, as consumers are showing their support for such products and services across many market demographics.
More details of the report can be seen via here.
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
By Eric Lee
Many small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), firms with fewer than 500 employees, believe that global climate change is an issue that can be swept under the rug due to the lack of immediate impact that is associated with their daily operations. Furthermore, the small pool of business owners that do carry a sense of urgency fail to take the necessary actions because they feel as if only little can be contributed to this massive war against climate change. However, here at Carbon Credit Capital (CCC), we think differently and want to challenge these notions.
Before diving into the statistics and research, a picture needs to be painted on how important and crucial the SMEs are to the economy. For the U.S. alone, SMEs make up more than 99% of all firms, employ over 50% of private sector employees, and generate over 65% of net new private sector jobs. Furthermore, SMEs contribute to over half the U.S. non-farm GDP and represents 98% of all U.S. exporters as well as 34% export revenues.

With that in mind, let’s dive in.
First, climate change does impact routine businesses of all sectors and sizes! According to a study by Nature, climate change due to unmitigated global warming will leave the average income around the world 23% lower in 2100 than it would be without climate change. With the constant fluctuations of temperatures and precipitation levels, the Earth is more prone to natural disasters and natural hazards, such as flooding, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, droughts, and fires. In result, these consequences of climate change can damage various asset classes, increase supply chain shortages and disruptions, halt distribution processes, alter the current state of the economy by driving up prices, crush various streams of revenues, and even result in bankruptcy. For example, a report published by CDP disclosed that 44% of businesses suffered a disturbance in production from flooding or drought while 31% experienced higher production costs. Moreover, a piece in the New York Times revealed that the United States alone incurred costs of over $25-billion from natural disasters in the year 2014.
Second, SMEs do play a crucial role in the global efforts against climate change. In 2013, it was reported that 334 out of 500 (67%) companies on the S&amp;P 500 have reported their carbon footprint to CDP. These 334 companies totaled 1.6-billion MT of CO2-equivalents for Scope 1 &amp; 2 emissions, which constitutes to only 30% of the U.S. emissions and only 5% globally. In other words, SMEs are part of the 70% of unaccounted carbon emissions in the United States and the 95% worldwide. These alarming numbers show that the majority of work needed to be done lies in the hands of small and medium-sized business owners, contrary to the commonly conceived notion of large market players and fortune 500 companies being the big players.
Now exposed to the vulnerability and power the SMEs have in this global effort against climate change, innovative solutions should be seriously considered.
But how?
Many environmental consultants and sustainability-minded professional are now turning to carbon reduction and carbon offsets, which is the process of reducing carbon dioxide emissions in order to compensate for an emission made elsewhere. CCC also believes this is the solution for SMEs to do their part in preserving the environment and fighting against climate change.
Here at CCC, we provide this novel service called Carbon Neutral Checkout TM (CNC). It offers a customized carbon footprint tool unique to each company and allows the operations and products associated it to become carbon neutral without any significant modifications and upfront costs. Overall, this service helps preserve our environment and reduce negative environmental impacts with ease. Together Carbon Credit Capital and SMEs can partner up in carbon reduction to help save our environment!

&nbsp;
&nbsp;

Eric is a business development intern for Carbon Credit Capital LLC. Specifically, he assists with client relations, market research, sales outreach, and account management of corporate GHG mitigation to local businesses.

Only Natural Pet, a nationally distributed healthy pet food provider, signed an agreement with Carbon Credit Capital to become a member of the Carbon Neutral Checkout™ Program. Only Natural Pet, known for its commitment to fostering happy and healthy pets, offers a full range of wet, dry and raw cat and dog foods, as well as a multitude of other pet treats and accessories that are good for your furry loved ones.

Carbon Credit Capital has estimated that during 2015, Only Natural Pet was responsible for 860 tCO2e (tonnes of CO2 equivalent) of carbon emissions during their Q2 and Q3 production cycle, with these emissions coming largely from the ingredients used in their different Dry Canine and Feline PowerFoods. Carbon Credit Capital, as a part of the Carbon Neutral Checkout™ Program, estimated the carbon footprint of Only Natural Pet’s operations including Scope1, 2 and 3 emissions boundaries for the PowerFood products specifically.  In 2016 the estimated cost to offset a single bag of each variety of PowerFood will be integrated into the price, making Only Natural Pet’s entire line of PowerFood carbon neutral.
Only Natural Pet has chosen ADPML Portel-Para REDD an “a-forestry” project in the Pará region of Brazil, which is helping to preserve Amazon forest that is at risk of being deforested by squatters and cattle ranchers to offset their PowerFood products’ carbon footprint. The project prevents the deforestation in the Amazon rainforest of an approximately 150,000 hectares area. ADPML provides sustainable jobs, a trust fund for responsible economic development, and improves air quality with clean cook stoves for the local community. Moreover the project also benefits the well being of the wildlife in the Amazon. In fact the project will prevent nearly 22.2 million tons of greenhouse gas emissions released to the atmosphere over the course of its lifetime.
Only Natural Pet is well known for their unique way of building relationship and trust with the customers. The company has a variety of products that can fit the necessities of the different pets with the advise of the professional staff. Furthermore they have a program for the customers called the “Perks Rebate Program” which includes special offers and discounts. Day in and day out, Only Natural Pet delivers on its promise to help you find the right products for your specific pet, all while maintaining strong environmental stewardship. Their membership to the Carbon Neutral Checkout Program™ only further solidifies them as a leader in the pet food space, which is often marred by less-than-the-best products and companies.
About Only Natural Pet:
Only Natural Pet is a nationally distributed pet food manufacturer, with reach in the United States and Canada. Only Natural Pet provides a wide variety of thoughtfully and carefully produced pet food and accessory options for both cats and dogs. With an inherent focus on pet health, and corporate and product sustainability, Only Natural Pet has emerged as a clear leader in the pet food industry in both categories. Ingredient transparency, commitment to working with you to foster healthy pets, and a host of sustainability initiatives, which now include Carbon Neutral Checkout™ make this dedication obviously apparent and make Only Natural Pet equally a bourgeoning force for good in an industry often muddied by lack of information and lack of best practices.
&nbsp;
Carbon Credit Capital LLP (CCC), founded in 2006, is proud to announce its certification as a B Corp. Carbon Credit Capital becomes part of the network of nearly 1,500 Certified B Corporations from130 industries in 42 countries with 1 unifying goal – to redefine success in business.

As a Certified B Corporation, Carbon Credit Capital voluntarily meets a higher standard of accountability, performance, and transparency to solve social and economic problems.
“B Corp status is a corporate responsibility that CCC does not take lightly. B Corp status will only strengthen our mission to help educate and midwife companies to achieve carbon neutrality,” said Olivia Fussell, managing director of Carbon Credit Capital.
Carbon Credit Capital’s carbon neutral products and services gives businesses the opportunity to help the environment and build a robust eco-conscious brand, satiating the preferences of today’s customers. Carbon Credit Capital serves its clients by calculating a firm’s annual carbon footprint and then offering carbon footprints to be passed onto the client or customer at a negligible price.
&nbsp;

&nbsp;
Certified B Corporations are legally required to consider the impact of their decisions on their employees, suppliers, community, consumers, and environment. To become a Certified B Corporation, B Lab, the nonprofit entity that certifies B Corps, evaluated Carbon Credit Capital. Carbon Credit Capital was evaluated on its mission, community involvement, business model and governance, commitment to employees, environmentally friendly practices, and supplier and consumer diversity.
About B Corporations
Certified B Corporations meet the highest standards of overall social and environmental performance, legally expand their corporate responsibilities to include consideration of stakeholder interests, and build collective voice through the power of the unifying B Corporation brand. There are more than 1,300 Certified B Corporations from over 120 industries and nearly 50 countries with 1 unifying goal – to redefine success in business. B Corporations are leaders of the global movement of People Using Business as a Force for Good.
About B Lab
B Lab is a nonprofit organization that serves a global movement of People Using Business as a Force for Good. Its vision is that one day all companies will compete to be Best for the World and as a result society enjoys a shared and durable prosperity. B Lab drives this systemic change through a number of interrelated initiatives: 1) building a community of Certified B Corporations to make it easier for all of us to tell the difference between “good companies” and good marketing; 2) promoting usage of Mission Aligned corporate structures to increase efficacy of social entrepreneurship and impact investing (more than 2,000 benefit corporations have been registered in the 27 states and District of Columbia that have passed benefit corporation laws); 3) promoting Measure What Matters campaigns to increase use of free, powerful tools for businesses to measure, compare and improve their social and environmental performance (more than 20,000 businesses use B Lab’s free B Impact Assessment). 4) developing B Analytics, a customizable platform to help investors and institutions measure, benchmark, and report on the impact of the businesses with whom they work and in whom they invest. For more information, visit www.bcorporation.net, www.bimpactassessment.net, www.b-analytics.net and www.benefitcorp.net.
&nbsp;
By Harneet Kaur and Reed Shapiro
Carbon Credit Capital, a company dedicated to carbon offsets, has stepped forward in educating people about their impact on the global climate in the form of a carbon calculator.
In 2013, the International Energy Agency (IEA) noted in a study that an average American is responsible annually for about 17 metric tons of carbon dioxide from just energy consumption, which is nearly four times the global average of 4.5 metric tons per year.
“Before you can effectively manage your impact on the global climate, you should first know where your greenhouse gas emissions are coming from and how large of an impact you have.”
&#8211; Olivia Fussell, Founder and Managing Director of CCC
We often see people keeping a check on their calorie intake. Why? Because health science has provided evidence that reducing consumption of fatty foods can help the abatement of many diseases. The science of climate change has been indicating for over a decade, that reduction in carbon emissions can help to mitigate the drastic consequences of climate change across the globe. It is paramount that one should keep an eye on individual carbon emissions in order to make their contribution to solving the climate change issue manageable.

Who Can Use CCC’s Carbon Calculator?
Carbon Credit Capital’s carbon footprint calculators are tools that enable you to see how your emissions compare to households that are similar to yours, the national average, and the global average.
“Once you know the sources of your emissions, you can work to effectively reduce them, saving the environment while typically saving money, and you can offset what you cannot reduce.”
&#8211; Philip So, Account Representative at CCC
There are three calculators, customized for households, businesses and events respectively. One can customize their calculations through an extensive list of intricate options provided for calculating carbon footprint. Most importantly, it is a free resource that CCC has developed for educational awareness purposes. Different companies, NGOs, and universities use it voluntarily. Some have used it internally; some feature it on their website.
How is CCC’s Calculator differentiated from others?
“CCC has tried to make the calculator detail-oriented which gives a more accurate account of anyone’s carbon footprint. For example, the carbon footprint of a San Francisco, California resident would be different from that of a person in Austin, Texas. Besides that, this calculator also accounts for different energy mixes, prices, etc.”
&#8211; Pianpian Wang, GHG Accounting Analyst at CCC
Moreover CCC’s calculator is well customized for American users since it uses data mostly from government sources, which represents American habits and practices. On the other hand, mostother calculators use general global averages, which make the carbon footprint of a person in USA or India almost equal, which is typically not the case, making Carbon Credit Capital’s carbon footprint calculators some of the most intricate, accurate, and advanced anywhere in the world. This is a very important point to consider.
Value Added by the Knowledge of Carbon Footprint
In terms of well-being, knowing and monitoring your carbon footprint is as healthy as knowing calorie intake – making sure you don’t eat too many fatty foods can keep you healthy, while making sure you don’t emit too much carbon, can keep your planet healty. Awareness about the causes and challenges of carbon emissions enlightens one about the efficient solutions available at their disposal. One of the budding solutions at anyone’s disposal are carbon credits – they can inarguably contribute to significant reductions of the gap between one’s current carbon footprint, and lower emissions
With increasing eco-consciousness, purchasing and/or trading carbon credits can help efforts to improve your social impact and provides unique branding opportunities. Calculate your carbon footprint now!
If you are interested in large volumes of credits, talk to us. They will help you find the project that best suit your company’s needs.
&nbsp;


Harneet Kaur is the Account Representative for Carbon Credit Capital LLC. She also co-manages communications for Carbon Neutral Checkout™ program.
Reed Shapiro is the Account Manager for Carbon Credit Capital LLC. He also co- supports the Company’s public relations and communications efforts through its web site and direct client engagement. 
By Harneet Kaur
A number of low-carbon development initiatives have been taken worldwide by international organizations in efforts to combat climate change and prepare communities to overcome the devastating impacts of the green house effect, for which mankind itself is ironically responsible. However, a growing consensus indicates the commercial market also needs to respond to the challenges ignited by climate change in a big way. Momentum for these green initiatives taken by varied businesses in the commercial markets is increasing.

Hospitality is a growing industry with worldwide significance, closely related to the Travel &amp; Tourism industry. In fact, last year the hotel industry in the U.S. alone netted 176 billion USD in revenue. Given the vast presence of hotels, its significant contribution to carbon pollution through its carbon emissions should be addressed thoroughly..
A closer look makes it clear that the hospitality industry has a very large carbon footprint. With the usage of energy guzzling resources from food services, to laundry services, to housekeeping services, etc., the hotel industry is a serious perpetrator of increasing carbon emissions. Moreover, with increasing public awareness about carbon footprints, the hospitality industry might have to face severe consequences if no noteworthy green initiatives are brought into practice to effectively mitigate these carbon emissions.
Given there are already many green initiatives currently under way throughout the hospitality industry, it begs the question: are the existing eco-friendly initiatives sufficient for carbon emissions reduction?
Although we see many hotel industry players jumping into the pool of eco-friendliness to avoid major consequences, it is necessary that these players realize the difference between eco-friendliness and actual carbon reduction initiatives.
“It is a wretched truth that given the expanse of carbon impact the hotel industry contributes to, mere usage of eco-friendly products in the bathrooms, or energy saving appliances in the rooms, or organic food in the kitchen, would not suffice to meet the actual goals of carbon emission reductions. There needs to be an active implementation of carbon-offset projects and a push towards carbon neutral. ”
&#8211; Philip So, Account Representative at CCC
CCC has realized the potential of the hotel industry’s potential for carbon emission reductions. In the research and sales activities that CCC is fostering with the focus on hospitality, it has found that most hotels still focus on conventional sustainable methods, which are just not sufficient. Hotels tend to employ methods like using biodegradable products, recycled supplies, energy saving appliance, organic kitchen products, etc.
In North America, leading hotel companies like Hilton Worldwide and Marriott Hotel Group account for 400,000 to 500,000 rooms each in their total service offerings. Carbon Credit Capital has found in its research that an average 150-room hotel is responsible for 2,200 tonnes of carbon emissions annually. This is a huge number in terms of the cumulative carbon impact of vast hotel industry.

The Infographic: Carbon Emissions – The only unwanted hotel guests
CCC’s research team has recently released an infographic with an emphasis on the carbon impact caused by the hotel industry in North America. The aim of the infographic is essentially to educate laymen as well as those within the industry about the extent to which carbon emissions are caused by hotels. Apart from creating general awareness about the issue, the infographic also reflects on specific hotel operations, which contribute to a hotel’s total carbon footprint.
CCC has taken a lead in supporting high quality carbon emission reduction projects in domestic and developing markets. While working with different businesses towards achieving their sustainability goals, CCC offers carbon management solutions in three main service lines: Carbon Reductions, Carbon Neutrality Services and Customized Carbon Footprint Calculation Tools.
“CCC’s Carbon Neutral CheckoutTM is a program that allows businesses an opportunity to sell carbon neutral products without incurring an additional cost to their bottom-line. Companies can earn industry and market recognition as a sustainability leader.”
&#8211; Olivia Fussell, Founder and Managing Director of CCC
Other than resulting in the sale of carbon neutral products and services, this program also helps to create a robust eco-conscious brand, satiating the preferences of today’s customers. Selling carbon neutral products differentiates businesses and gives businesses a clear edge over their competitors.
Hotel Facts: Let’s have a look!

An average American 150-room hotel is responsible for 2,200 tonnes of Carbon Emission annually!
That is equal to the emissions from:

Driving 8.65 million miles in a mini-van
Or Taking 2,040 flights rom New York to San Francisco


Hotel operations that have the most carbon impact

Catering = 10.50%
Laundry = 19.20%
Electricity = 52.40%


A single day-stay in a hotel room produces 213 pounds of carbon emissions.

According to Trip Advisor, 62% of travelers consider the environment when choosing hotels.

&nbsp;
Harneet Kaur is the Account Representative for Carbon Credit Capital LLC. She also co-manages communications for Carbon Neutral Checkout™ program.
&nbsp;

By Harneet Kaur
Experts at Carbon Credit Capital (CCC) launch a survey tool to measure eco-consumerist trends in the market, quantifying consumers’ appetite for “carbon neutral” branding.
Carbon Credit Capital, as a leader in carbon offset projects, moves a step further in researching the aspects of eco-consumerism via a simple survey. As the current market values greenhouse gas emission reductions, and public awareness of climate change impacts is constantly increasing, it is vital to emphasize the concept of “carbon neutrality.”
“There is a need to help the environment by offering carbon neutral products, and take the opportunity to create a strong eco-conscious brand, satiating the preferences of today’s customers”
&#8211; Olivia Fussell, Founder and Managing Director of CCC
We often search the market for “organic” products. What has driven the attention of consumers towards organics is the health-consciousness associated with the awareness of food adulteration and the devastating effects of overused chemical pesticides and fertilizers. As awareness of potentially harmful processes and substances used in conventional food production has grown, so has the demand for less harmful organic products and produce.
Likewise, a realization is currently being made that the demand for eco-products as a trend indicates high levels of competition in the market. The global issue of climate change is impacting individuals and businesses in varied capacities. As both consumers and businesses come to terms with the root-cause of this issue (none other than the release of GHGs); that we as individuals and businesses contribute to these detrimental consequences, “carbon neutral,” and “carbon neutrality” are picking up momentum as viable concepts to face climate risks and challenges globally.
With the vision of tackling the issue of runaway GHG emissions, CCC offers its unique Carbon Neutral CheckoutTM program to all industries and industrial sectors. This program helps companies reduce their carbon emission footprint and creates a robust carbon neutral brand.
Despite the fact that people’s awareness about the issue of our warming climate is accelerating, there is yet to be substantial evidence that consumers would be willing to support carbon neutrality by purchasing carbon neutral products and to what an extent. To dig deeper for the answer as to whether the market is ready for carbon neutral products and brands, CCC has initiated a consumer survey.
How much more will consumers pay to buy carbon neutral products?
The CCC consumer survey has a targeted sample size of 500, encompassing individuals as well as business across North America. The main objective is to determine how strong the eco-consumerist demand is in the current market. The main question asks about the extent to which people are ready to pay the price for carbon neutral products.
In addition to the above factors, the survey also aims to enlighten people about carbon management solutions and the potential for carbon neutral products. The survey has the potential to substantially contribute to research that will better able the understanding of the current market dynamics of eco-consumerism.
“The survey is a very straightforward tool to educate people about what carbon neutrality is, and puts this concept in their mind while we circulate the survey.”
&#8211; Pianpian Wang, GHG Accounting Analyst at CCC
The survey is still in circulation and the good news is that as of now, people seem to be interested in purchasing carbon neutral products and do not mind spending $3-$5 extra, which is the high extreme for price increases (most daily products are $0-$2 to make them carbon neutral). But these are still interim results; the big story is yet to come.
Stay tuned to know more about CCC’s initiatives and impending results from the consumer survey.
Wild Side Specialty Tours, a Hawaii-based marine tours provider, signed an agreement with Carbon Credit Capital to become a member of the Carbon Neutral Checkout™ Program. Wild Side, consistently ranked in the ‘Top Five’ Hawaiian Tours, offers exotic marine tours including whale watching, swimming with dolphins and guided snorkeling with sea turtles and tropical marine life.

During 2014-2015, Wild Side was responsible for 69 tCO2e (tonnes of CO2 equivalent) of carbon emissions, with these emissions coming largely from the burning of fuel used to power their two boat tours. Carbon Credit Capital, as a part of the Carbon Neutral Checkout™ Program, estimated the carbon footprint of Wild Side operations including Scope1, 2 and 3 emissions boundaries.
Wild Side has chosen a Wastewater Methane Recovery project in the Anhui province of China, which is helping to improve the water quality of open lagoons, to offset their operational footprint. The project drastically reduces methane emissions from waste-water and prevents carbon dioxide (CO2), particulate matter (PM), and sulphur oxides (SOx) emissions by replacing the use of about 45,000 tonnes of coal per year. This methane recovery project not only results in better air, water, and health quality for the local community but also helps marine life in local bodies of water.
Comprised of expert marine biologists, the Wild Side team runs two tours, which feature in several top-rated tour lists, boasting a marine mammal sighting rate of 99.5%. As Wild Side first started taking people out into the wild to support their research projects, they also try to bring awareness and education to their customers, so they can leave the tour with a one-of-a-kind experience, as well as a new source of knowledge to take back to their daily lives.
About Wild Side Specialty Tours:
Wild Side is an internationally recognized marine tours company conducting environmentally responsible marine interactions. They aggressively participate in environmental protection through education and action, and promote sustainable travel. Wild Side donates part of its revenue to Wild Dolphin Foundation dedicated to marine conservation and education, regulatory reform, and research.
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
According to Entrepreneur Magazine, there are between 25 million and 27 million small businesses in the U.S. that account for 60 to 80 percent of all U.S. jobs. Small businesses are vitally important to the U.S. economy, but they seem to be at a disadvantage when it comes to sustainability. Large companies and corporations use the services of top environmental consulting firms to audit their environmental impacts, establish an environmental management system, and set future reduction targets to eventually brand themselves as a green company. This all comes at a very high price, often leaving small businesses in the dust due to their inability to front the cost associated with most methods of sustainable management. Unlike large companies, which tend to have full-time sustainability staff and are far more likely to have aggressive sustainability strategies, few small businesses have dedicated capacity for sustainability. By their nature, small businesses –especially the very smallest – lack the resources to hire dedicated, knowledgeable staff to harness the value in sustainability.

In the Intuit 2020 Report, Sustainability will become a “competitive requirement for small business within the next ten years, moving from social novelty to business necessity.” As more and more brands become sustainable, they lose the ability to use that for differentiation. In fact, some recent studies seem to indicate that as the number of sustainable brands in a category increases, brands that are not sustainable are penalized more than the sustainable brand&#8217;s benefit. In order to preserve small businesses as a part of the competitive marketplace, there needs to be a new way for them to get a leg up over large companies in the world of sustainability. The goal of carbon management firms like Carbon Credit Capital (CCC) is to give small businesses this ability and take their brand one-step past sustainable in an affordable way.

The management guru Peter Drucker famously said, “If you can’t measure it, you can’t manage it.” Striving to be carbon neutral is one way to measure green efforts as a company without the price tag associated with most greenhouse gas emission reduction strategies. Carbon neutrality simply means a company’s negative impact on the environment is balanced out with an equal amount of positive impact, making their carbon footprint disappear. Carbon Credit Capital (CCC) has developed a novel approach to offering carbon mitigation via high-quality carbon offset projects that can also help small and medium-sized businesses meet social and environmental objectives. CCC is offering a service &#8211; called “Carbon Neutral Checkout™ (CNC)” – in which customized carbon footprint tools will be developed for a retailer’s product inventory. It allows the entity to build the cost of carbon neutrality into their business model without any significant modifications. This allows a business to become carbon neutral at no upfront cost, helps protect the climate and environment, and establish the business as an environmentally-friendly brand. This model revolutionizes the existing voluntary carbon offsetting method of sales and sets CCC apart from its competition.
Partnering with those like Carbon Credit Capital who can help offset existing footprint, small businesses can become carbon neutral easily and at a low cost. For all the benefits it brings to the environment and the great reputation it can build with potential customers, this is one way of going green that proves both measurable and worth it.
Carbon Credit Capital


-->
Carbon Credit Capital is proud to announce that it has received Green Business Certification from Green America©. This demonstrates Carbon Credit Capital’s commitment to environmentally and socially responsible business. It further strengthens the company’s mission to “bridge the barriers to a carbon neutral world”. While conferring the certification, Green America stated, “We are impressed by Carbon Credit Capital’s attention to Additionality and expertise in global markets.”

Carbon Credit Capital is a leader in global carbon mitigation projects and has been an active participant in the carbon markets since 2006. It has been helping organizations reduce their carbon footprint and achieve sustainability goals through the use of carbon offsets for many years. It has partnered with carbon offset developers from around the globe that adhere to the highest standards in the industry. “We are committed to offering best in class carbon management services for businesses to help reduce their environmental footprint in the most cost effective manner. This recognition gives us extra motivation and will allow us to go an extra mile in achieving our goals”, said Olivia Fussell, Managing Director Carbon Credit Capital.
Carbon Credit Capital recently launched its newest service offering called Carbon Neutral Checkout™. This new initiative is reinventing how organizations can take effective measures to reduce their environmental footprint across the value chain. It not only allows businesses to offer their customers carbon neutral products and services at no additional cost, but also gives them an opportunity to stay ahead of global trends and beat the competition.
“We are revolutionizing the way small businesses and individuals see themselves as part of the solution for global problems like climate change,” Carbon Credit Capital’s Director of Business Development, Arpit Soni said. “Carbon Neutral Checkout™ is a trend-setter and soon all businesses will be adopting similar initiatives.”
About Green America
Green America is a not-for-profit membership organization founded in 1982. Its mission is to harness economic power—the strength of consumers, investors, businesses, and the marketplace—to create a socially just and environmentally sustainable society.
Download PDF file
